                              NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES




                         FIGHTING CLIMATE CHANGE:
              INTERNATIONAL ATTITUDES TOWARD CLIMATE POLICIES

                                     Antoine Dechezleprêtre
                                         Adrien Fabre
                                         Tobias Kruse
                                      Bluebery Planterose
                                      Ana Sanchez Chico
                                      Stefanie Stantcheva

                                      Working Paper 30265
                              http://www.nber.org/papers/w30265


                     NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH
                              1050 Massachusetts Avenue
                                Cambridge, MA 02138
                             July 2022, Revised July 2024


We are grateful for financial support from the OECD, the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the
French CAE, and the Spanish Ministry for the Ecological Transition. We also acknowledge
support from the Grantham Foundation for the Protection of the Environment and the Economic
and Social Research Council through the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy.
Planterose acknowledges financial support from the Research Council of Norway through grant
no. 341289 and from the Agence Nationale de la Recherche through the program Investissements
d’Avenir ANR-17-EURE-0001. We thank Laurence Boone, Stefano Carattini, Eyal Frank,
Michael Greenstone, Cameron Hepburn, Joe Shapiro, Matthias Sutter, OECD researchers, and
numerous seminar participants for valuable comments. The project is approved by IRB at
Harvard University (IRB21-0137), and was preregistered in the AER RCT Registry
(AEARCTR-0007300). The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research.

NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been
peer-reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies
official NBER publications.

© 2022 by Antoine Dechezleprêtre, Adrien Fabre, Tobias Kruse, Bluebery Planterose, Ana
Sanchez Chico, and Stefanie Stantcheva. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed
two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including ©
notice, is given to the source.
Fighting Climate Change: International Attitudes Toward Climate Policies
Antoine Dechezleprêtre, Adrien Fabre, Tobias Kruse, Bluebery Planterose, Ana Sanchez Chico,
and Stefanie Stantcheva
NBER Working Paper No. 30265
July 2022, Revised July 2024
JEL No. D78,H23,P48,Q54,Q58

                                         ABSTRACT

This paper explores global perceptions and understanding of climate change and policies,
examining factors that influence support for climate action and the impact of different types of
information. We conduct large-scale surveys with 40,000 respondents from 20 countries,
providing new international data on attitudes towards climate change and respondents’
socioeconomic backgrounds and lifestyles. We identify three key perceptions affecting policy
support: perceived effectiveness of policies in reducing emissions, their impact on low-income
households, and their effect on respondents’ households (self-interest). Educational videos
clarifying policy mechanisms increase support for climate policies; those merely highlighting
climate change’s impacts do not.

Antoine Dechezleprêtre                         Bluebery Planterose
OECD                                           Paris School of Economics
2 rue Andre Pascal                             48 Boulevard Jourdan
PARIS 75016                                    Paris, 75014
France                                         France
antoine.dechezlepretre@oecd.org                and EU Tax Observatory
                                               bluebery.planterose@psemail.eu
Adrien Fabre
CIRED                                          Ana Sanchez Chico
45bis Av. de la Belle Gabrielle                Harvard University
94130                                          and Opportunity Insights
Nogent-sur-Marne                               sanchezchicoana@gmail.com
France
fabre.adri1@gmail.com                          Stefanie Stantcheva
                                               Department of Economics
Tobias Kruse                                   Littauer Center 232
OECD                                           Harvard University
2 rue André Pascal                             Cambridge, MA 02138
75775 Paris Cedex 16                           and NBER
PARIS                                          sstantcheva@fas.harvard.edu
France
Tobias.Kruse@oecd.org


A data appendix is available at http://www.nber.org/data-appendix/w30265
1         Introduction
    Limiting the average temperature increase to less than 2°C above pre-industrial levels
requires drastically reducing global emissions by 2050 (IPCC 2021). Judging by publicly an-
nounced long-term commitments and goals, policymakers appear to be taking this imperative
seriously. Over 140 countries representing 90% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
have so far adopted or announced climate neutrality targets (NPUC 2021) implying net-zero
GHG emissions by mid-century. However, while climate mitigation ambitions are robust,
bold policy measures to achieve them are strikingly lagging. Global energy-related and in-
dustrial process CO2 emissions (36.6 Gt in 2021) are only projected to slowly fall to 32 Gt
by 2050 (IEA 2022), leading to a 2.7°C temperature rise by 2100, greatly increasing the
likelihood of catastrophic impacts for societies and economies (Climate Action Tracker 2021;
IPCC 2022).
    Indeed, climate policies–particularly carbon pricing mechanisms, which economists see
as key instruments to reduce emissions (Stiglitz et al. 2017)–have often been challenging
to implement, even when the objective of limiting global warming is broadly accepted. As
our new large-scale international survey across 20 countries reveals, at least three-quarters
of respondents in each country agree that “climate change is an important problem” and
that their country “should take measures to fight” it (see Figure 1), but this often does not
translate into an agreement on which climate policies to support.
    In this paper, we seek to understand what drives support for or opposition to important
climate policies across the world. To organize our thinking, Figure 2 shows a visual concep-
tual framework. Climate policies can depend on self-interest, whether objective or perceived
(Box I), reflecting people’s lifestyle impacts, energy usage, or characteristics such as income
and location. Beyond narrow self-interest, policy views can also depend on broader economic
and social concerns, ranging from the perceived effectiveness of the policies to concerns about
climate change (Boxes II to VI).
    Our first contribution is to collect new large-scale international survey data on over
40,000 respondents in the twenty countries depicted in Figure 3, covering their perceptions
of, understanding of, and attitudes toward climate change and a broad range of climate miti-
gation policies. We currently lack comprehensive data on how people worldwide perceive and
reason about climate change. However, climate change is a global problem with disparate
impacts across countries and people (Carleton et al. 2022). It is thus necessary to study
these questions internationally across major GHG emitters in both developed and develop-
ing economies. Our sample countries span different income levels and social and economic
contexts. They account for 72% of global 2017 CO2 emissions (JRC 2018) and include 18
out of the 21 largest emitters of greenhouse gases.1
    Our second contribution is to build an in-depth survey, as standardized as possible across
countries, to elicit all the components in Figure 2. Importantly, we do not just ask whether
respondents support or oppose a given policy. Instead, we include specific questions about
their understanding and perceptions of how these policies work regarding their effectiveness,
    1
        The three large emitters not included in our sample are Russia, Iran, and Saudi Arabia.


                                                        2
   Figure 1: Share of respondents who agree (somewhat to strongly) that “Climate change is
   an important problem” or that their country “should take measures to fight climate change”
                                                                       CC is an important problem                                             [Country] should ﬁght CC
                   100                                                                                       94
                                                                                 93                                                                                                     92 90                     92 91
                                                                                      90   89                                                                                                                91
                                                                                                                  88   88                           88 88   88                  87 88           88 89                     87 85
                         84                84 82
                                                                                                86   86 86                  85   84 83                                                                  84
                              82                                       82                                                                                        83        83
                                                   80        81                                                                                                       80
                    80             76 75                77        78        78                                                           77
                                                                                                                                              73




% of Respondents
                    60


                    40


                    20


                    0
                              A me
                                 usco
                                    tr
                                 C ia
                                   an  al
                              D ada
                                 en m
                                  Fr k
                              G nce  a ar
                                 er
                                  JamItan
                                        al  y
                                            y
                          So Pol       pa   n
                   in
                    U ni te dut an
                       U ing nK h  K
                                   S  o
                                     pa rei d
                                            a
                   h-
                    M id  ni
                          dl te
                             e- d
                                inSt
                                   co
                                     datomes
          ig                       B
                                   C ra
                                     him zi
                                         na el
   H                     So   In dia
                             ut  do
                                 M
                                h co
                                  A
                                    In
                                    ne
                                    ex
                                 Tu afrisia
                                        i c
                                U ey
                                  kr  rk
                                      ai ne



   economic impacts, distributional consequences, and effects on their household.
       Thanks to this comprehensive data, we can study which factors are most predictive of
   policy support. Does resistance to new climate policies stem from a lack of knowledge about
   the impacts of climate change? Are citizens worried about the effects of policies on their own
   budget and lifestyle? Do they hold broader concerns about the effects of climate policies on
   particular groups and the economy? Or do they question whether these policies will mitigate
   climate change? To assess the importance of these factors, it is crucial to measure them all
   within the same respondent and study them together.
       Our third contribution is to show what type of information is most important to shift
   views on climate policies. To do so, we show random sub-samples of respondents pedagogical
   videos on the impacts of climate change in their country (the Climate impacts treatment)
   or on how three key climate policies – a ban on combustion-engine cars, a carbon tax with
   cash transfers, and a green infrastructure program – work (the Climate policies treatment),
   allowing us to measure the causal effect of specific information provision on policy views.
       Our paper leverages advances in survey methodology, which is key for studying impor-
   tant but otherwise invisible things such as perceptions, attitudes, reasonings, and views (see,
   among others Stantcheva (2021) for reasoning about policies, Haaland, Roth and Wohlfart
   (2020) for information experiments, Johnston et al. (2017) for guidance on stated prefer-
   ences studies, and Stantcheva (2022a) for a review of survey methodology). Economists are
   somewhat weary of surveys. We often prefer revealed preference approaches, but these are
   not well-suited to uncovering the reasoning underlying people’s policy preferences. While
   surveys permit measuring and analyzing people’s thinking more directly, some worry that
   self-reported survey answers may not be accurate. However, a growing body of research

                                                                                                                        3
       Figure 2: Conceptual Framework: Factors Shaping Views on Climate Policy
                                                          Views on climate policies:

                             Main Policies Studied
                                                                                         Other Policies
               • Taxation (carbon tax with cash transfers)               • Energy policies (subsidies to low-carbon
                                                                           technologies,. . . )
               • Regulation (ban on combustion-engine cars)
                                                                         • Food policies (ban of intensive cattle farming,. . . )
               • Investments (green infrastructure program)              • ...


                   A                                                                         C

              Self-interest                                                            Broader economic
        (perceived and objective)        B
                                                                                       & social concerns



                    I                                II                  III                  IV                 V                  VI

       • Lifestyle impacts
                                                                      Perceived
       • Energy usage                             Perceived                                                                     Concerns
                                                                   distributional          Perceived        Knowledge
                                                effectiveness                                                                    about
                                                                      impacts              effects on          about
       • Personal characteristics                 of climate                                                                    climate
                                                                      of climate         the economy       climate change
                                                    policy                                                                      change
                                                                        policy




                              Figure 3: The 20 countries covered in the survey




shows that when possible to measure both, survey responses are correlated with real-world
or real-stakes behaviors (see Fehr, Epper and Senn (2020), Tannenbaum et al. (2020), Funk
(2016), and Hainmueller, Hangartner and Yamamoto (2015)). We show below (Figure 4)
that self-reported preferences are positively correlated with “real stakes” behaviors, where
we ask respondents to invest time or money to express their views. Furthermore, to ensure


                                                                     4
that the data is of high quality and the survey results are credible and robust, we employ
many techniques described briefly in Section 2 and in-depth in Stantcheva (2022a).
    Our main findings are as follows. First, we shed light on the factors associated with
support for more climate action. Three fundamental beliefs are major predictors of whether
people support a given climate policy: (i) its perceived ability to reduce emissions (effec-
tiveness), (ii) its perceived distributional impacts on lower-income households (inequality
concerns), and (iii) its perceived economic impact on people’s own household (self-interest).
By contrast, concerns about climate change are not significant predictors of respondents’
policy views – most respondents are already deeply concerned about climate impacts. Simi-
larly, even though respondents exhibit varying degrees of knowledge about climate change’s
causes and consequences, this knowledge does not significantly correlate with their policy
views.
    Consequently, support for climate policies strongly varies with their specific modalities.
When we consider a broad set of (twenty-four) policies, we can see that there is more support
for policy designs that are arguably more effective and progressive. These include targeted
investment programs (e.g., in clean energy infrastructure and other low-carbon technologies)
that are financed by progressive taxes or public debt and carbon taxes with strongly progres-
sive use of revenues (such as cash transfers to the poorest or vulnerable households).2 They
also include regulations rather than corrective taxes in some settings (such as bans on pol-
luting vehicles from city centers or dense areas and the mandatory insulation of buildings),
highlighting the perceived inequity of the “pay to pollute” principles.
    Second, we show what type of information increases support for climate action. Com-
pared with a control group who saw no video, respondents who saw the video documenting
the impacts of climate change in the viewer’s country increased their willingness to take
privately costly ‘real-stakes’ actions, including donating to a deforestation cause and sign-
ing a petition to support more climate action. However, they did not substantially alter
their views on public policies to reduce climate change. On the contrary, respondents who
saw a video explaining how the three central policies work - their likely effects on emis-
sions and their distributional implications - exhibit stronger support for these and related
climate policies. The same goes for respondents who see both videos. Thus, information
and explanations can bolster support for public policies, but only if they address people’s
main concerns. Information on the dangers of climate change alone without a corresponding
explanation of policies’ effectiveness and distributional implications has only limited impacts
on policy support. Hence, the experimental findings causally confirm the importance of the
abovementioned factors, which are most predictive of policy views.
    Third, we highlight how personal socioeconomic characteristics, lifestyle, and energy
usage correlate with policy views and the underlying reasoning about climate change. More
educated and left-leaning respondents are generally more supportive of climate policies.
Higher household income is only associated with stronger climate action support in some
   2
    Vulnerable households are defined as low-income or constrained, e.g., living in areas with little public
transportation.



                                                     5
countries.3 There are mixed patterns across countries concerning respondents’ age; it is thus
not the case that young respondents are systematically more favorable to climate policies.
Support for climate policies is stronger among respondents whose lifestyle is more amenable
to adapting to them. Thus, opposition to climate policies is strongly correlated with lower
availability of public transportation, greater reliance on cars, and, to a lesser extent, higher
gas expenses.
    Furthermore, these respondent characteristics are also significantly correlated with beliefs
about climate policy effectiveness and distributional impacts, not just the perceived impacts
on one’s household (self-interest). Nevertheless, predicting beliefs or policy views based on
socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics is challenging. In other words, we are not easily
able to infer people’s policy views or beliefs based on their age, country, gender, education,
income, political leanings, or how much they rely on polluting sources of energy.


Related Literature. Our paper contributes to the growing empirical literature exploring
the drivers of support for climate policies among citizens, as reviewed by Drews and van den
Bergh (2016).4 Our contributions to this literature, reviewed next, are threefold: First, we
obtain detailed within-respondent measures of the many potential determinants of policy
views (as summarized in Figure 2) so as to be able to parse their relative importance,
instead of testing one specific channel. Second, we provide this comprehensive analysis for
20 different countries. Third, we study a broad set of climate policies, moving beyond the
most widely studied carbon taxes.
    We are thus able to show that distributional impacts matter to people for a broad range
of climate policies and that more progressive policies garner more support. These findings
confirm and generalize existing evidence from specific, mainly rich, countries that have al-
most exclusively been about carbon taxes, as in Carattini, Carvalho and Fankhauser (2018),
Maestre-Andrés, Drews and van den Bergh (2019), Bergquist, Mildenberger and Stokes
(2020), and Douenne and Fabre (2022). For instance, Bergquist, Mildenberger and Stokes
(2020) use a conjoint experiment in the U.S. to show that support for climate policy is higher
when it is bunded with social policies such as affordable housing or a minimum wage or if
it includes clean energy standards. Related to progressivity, D’Acunto et al. (2022) show
that consumers strongly support the introduction of a carbon tax after learning that the
rich contribute more to climate change than the poor. Our findings for a range of different
climate policies echo those about the carbon tax from Carattini, Carvalho and Fankhauser
(2018), who review the literature and policy successes and failures to identify key factors of
support for carbon taxes (see also Klenert et al. (2018)).
    Our result that earmarking the revenues from carbon taxes for environmental causes is
echoed by Sommer, Mattauch and Pahle (2022) for Germany, Sælen and Kallbekken (2011)
for Norway, and Thalmann (2004) for Switzerland.5
  3
    Brazil, India, Indonesia, Italy, Poland, South Africa, and Ukraine.
  4
    For a review of perceptions and awareness of climate change, see Whitmarsh and Capstick (2018).
  5
    However, Sommer, Mattauch and Pahle (2022) show that respondents prefer using carbon tax revenues



                                                 6
    The role of self-interest for opposition to carbon taxes is highlighted for Sweden by
Brannlund and Persson (2012), and for several European countries using the European Social
Survey by Umit and Schaffer (2020).
    In comparison to carbon taxes, the literature looking at other climate policies explored
in our paper (e.g., bans, regulations, standards) that are much more prevalent in practice is
limited. An example is Tarduno (2020) who studies Nevada’s renewable portfolio standard
and leverages an information experiment around a real-world vote. He finds that voting is
relatively responsive to perceived policy effectiveness.
    One of our contributions is to study which type of information shifts poeple’s views
on climate change. Closely related to our paper is the work by Carattini et al. (2017) in
Switzerland (see also Baranzini and Carattini (2017)) studying voting behavior in a large
ballot on energy taxes. They test the acceptability of alternative designs of a carbon tax
using a choice experiment survey and inform respondents about the environmental, distri-
butional and competitiveness effects of each carbon tax design. They find that highlighting
distributional effects increases demand for progressive designs. Similarly, Mildenberger et al.
(2022) study Canada and Switzerland, the only two countries with climate rebate programs
and show that respondents underestimate the rebate amounts. Experimentally providing
information on the rebate amount has only very small effect in Switzerland and negative
effect in Canada, especially among Conservative voters. They conclude that attitudes to-
wards the carbon tax with rebates is mostly shaped by partisan identity. We are able to
compare information about climate policies to information about climate impacts, and show
that the former is much more effective in shifting policy views. Our finding that explaining
policies’ characteristics to respondents can shift their attitudes toward climate policies con-
tributes to the ongoing discussions surrounding the importance of information in this area
(e.g., Boon-Falleur et al. 2022; Kahan 2015; Sunstein et al. 2017).
    There have been several recent data collection initiatives across multiple countries by
national or international organizations (the United Nations (UNDP 2021), Electricite de
France (EDF) and Ipsos (Ipsos 2020), the Pew Research center (Stokes, Wike and Carle
2015)), and by researchers surveying Facebook users in 30 countries (Leiserowitz et al. 2021),
but they do not focus on policies, contrary to our paper.

    While our paper does not carry out a contingent valuation study, we also analyse will-
ingness to adopt climate-friendly behaviors (at the individual level), which is conceptually
distinct from supporting public climate policies. Related work by Bernard, Tzamourani and
Weber (2022) shows that receiving information about ways to reduce CO2 emissions increases
individuals’ willingness to pay for voluntary CO2 offsetting. Andre et al. (2021) study the
behavioral determinants of the willingness to fight climate change – as measured through an
incentivized donation decision – in a large representative sample of U.S. adults. Predictors
of climate change behavior include beliefs about social norms, patience and altruism, and
universal moral values. An experiment shows that correcting the underestimation that many
to finance green investment, followed by equal cash transfers, and last by transfers targeted to the poorest.
We find across multiple countries that more progressive uses of the revenues (e.g., to the poorest respondents)
are preferred to equal cash transfers.

                                                      7
respondents have about the extent to which fellow citizens exhibit climate-friendly behaviors
and norms improves their willingness to adopt climate-friendly behaviors. The importance
of higher-order beliefs (beliefs about others’ beliefs) and social norms is also emphasized in
Mildenberger and Tingley (2019), Carattini, Levin and Tavoni (2019) and Bolsen, Leeper
and Shapiro (2014). We do not study norms directly, but similarly find that citizens are
more willing to adopt climate-friendly behaviors if others – particularly the rich – adopt
them. However, across all countries, respondents also flag financial constraints as a major
hurdle to the adoption of more climate-friendly behaviors.

    The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the data collection, the
sample, and the questionnaires. The subsequent sections present our main results: Section
3 focuses on knowledge about and attitudes toward climate change; Section 4 describes the
support for policies across respondents and countries; Section 5 analyzes the beliefs and
reasoning about the main climate policies covered and studies the factors associated with
support for climate change action; and Section 6 presents the experimental results and the
causal effect of information on policy views and attitudes. The Online Appendix provides
additional information on the survey and analyses, as well as country-by-country results.


2     The survey
2.1    Survey data collection and sample
Data collection. We collected our survey data between March 2021 and March 2022
using the survey companies Dynata and Respondi. The survey companies maintain panels of
respondents and send survey links to panelists with targeted socioeconomic characteristics.
The companies also reward the respondents who fully complete the survey with compensation
of varying amounts and forms, including cash, donations to charities, and loyalty programs
points at partner companies. Excluding inattentive respondents that failed our attention
check questions or who completed the survey too fast (as explained below), our main analysis
sample has 40,680 respondents (between 1,564 and 2,488 respondents per country).
    We first channel respondents through screening questions that ensure that the final sam-
ple is nationally representative along the dimensions of gender, age, income, region, and area
of residence (urban versus rural). Appendix A-2.1 provides more details on our sampling
procedure. For more information on online surveys, including recruitment, rewarding, and
comparisons of online samples to other types of samples, see Stantcheva (2022a).

Sample. Figures 17 and 18 show that our sample is relatively representative with respect
to demographics in high-income countries. One dimension in which our sample differs from
the population in some countries is education: In Italy, Poland, South Korea, and Spain,
the share of college-educated respondents in our sample is 9 to 23 percentage points higher
than in the population. This is common in online survey samples (see Alsan et al. (2021),
Stantcheva (2021), and Stantcheva (2022a)).


                                              8
    In middle-income countries (Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey,
and Ukraine), we faced constraints due to the online nature of the survey and the pandemic-
related restrictions on door-to-door surveys. College-educated people are overrepresented,
and respondents aged 50 and older or living in rural areas tend to be underrepresented.
Indeed, these types of respondents are always hard to reach in countries with similar char-
acteristics. For these countries, the results should therefore be interpreted with caution, as
they do not accurately reflect the attitudes of the population at large but rather those of
the “online population,” which tends to be skewed toward the middle and upper classes,
residing mainly in urban areas. Furthermore, there are some discrepancies in the vote for
certain parties in certain countries but they appear quite minor with the exception of India,
Indonesia, South Africa, and Ukraine.
    It is possible that due to the sample representativity and the correlations between the
oversampled characteristics and climate action support documented below, we might be over-
estimating support for climate policies in middle-income countries. Therefore, throughout
the paper, we re-weighted the samples within each country along the dimensions of gender,
age, income, region, urbanity, education, and employment.6

Data quality. We took several steps to ensure the best possible data quality. Native
speakers translated and reviewed the survey into the main national languages of each country
and ensured that it was in line with local context and understanding.
   On the introductory consent page, we appeal to people’s social responsibility by asking
them to answer carefully and honestly. We also warn them that we would withhold monetary
compensation if their answers did not pass our quality checks, which is reinforced by the
quality checks of the survey companies (of which respondents are aware). We record the
time spent on different blocks and the survey overall. The median completion time is 28
minutes (see Appendix A-2 for the entire distribution of survey times).
   We also added a question to screen out inattentive respondents. The representative
samples (as shown in Figures 17-18) are obtained after excluding inattentive respondents
who failed the attention check question (N=9,858, i.e. 18% of respondents) and those who
rushed to complete the survey in less than 11 minutes (N=8,642, 16% of respondents).
In total, because there is an overlap between those who rushed and those who failed the
attention question, we end up excluding 25% of all respondents (N=13,632) who started the
survey. We show in Appendix A-9.2 that our results are robust to the inclusion of these
25% of respondents and robust to dropping respondents who took less than 20 minutes to
complete the survey (a more stringent cutoff).
   In Appendix A-9.3, we detail attrition at each step, and we test for differential attrition in
Table A32. 12% of respondents (N = 8,689) drop out during the socioeconomic background
questions, i.e., very early on, before they know anything about the topic of the survey. Hence,
they are not dropping out differentially based on their interest in and views on climate change.
   6
    We trim weights so that no respondent receives a weight below 0.25 or above 4. Overall, trimming
changes the weights for 1% of the respondents in high-income countries and 30% in middle-income countries
(which represents 2% and 20% respectively of the weighted observations).


                                                   9
10% of respondents (N = 7,123) drop out at some point during the actual survey. Women,
younger, lower-income, and less educated respondents are more likely to drop out, but the
differences in attrition rates are not large.
    Ex post, we checked that there were only a few careless response patterns (such as choosing
the same answer for all items in a matrix of questions; see Appendix A-2.2). At the end of
the survey, we ask whether respondents thought that our survey was politically biased and
provide some feedback. 74% of the respondents found the survey unbiased. 15% found it
left-wing biased, and 11% found it right-wing biased.

Do Survey Responses Reflect Actual Attitudes and Behaviors? An important
question is whether (self-reported) survey responses reflect respondents’ true attitudes and
behaviors. To check this, our survey contained two real-stakes questions which asked respon-
dents to invest time and money to express their views: a donation and a petition question.
    In the donation question, we inform respondents that they are automatically entered into
a lottery to win $100 (or the equivalent in their local currency). Before they know whether
they have won the lottery, they have to decide which share of their potential win, if any, to
donate to the non-profit Gold Standard, which fights deforestation.
    The second question asks the respondents whether they are willing to sign a petition for
climate action (expressing the view that “immediate action for climate change is critical”)
and tells them that we will share information about the number of respondents who signed
this petition with the government of their country.
    Figure 4 shows that self-reported preferences are positively correlated with real-stakes be-
haviors. The figure shows the correlation between the real-stakes behaviors and two indices,
measuring respectively, support for climate policies (defined in Section 6) and willingness to
change one’s own behaviors (defined in Section 3), conditional on individual socioeconomic
characteristics and country fixed effects.7 While the specific components, behaviors, and
attitudes will be covered in detail below, the main takeaway is that respondents who ex-
press stronger support for climate policies and a higher willingness to adopt climate-friendly
behaviors are significantly more likely to donate to the reforestation cause and to sign a pe-
tition supporting climate action. For the willingness to sign a petition, the correlation with
the Support for main climate policies index is equivalent to 16% of the control group mean
and the correlation with the Willingness to change behavior index is 8%. For the willingness
to donate, the corresponding correlations are equivalent to, respectively, 8% and 5% of the
control group mean.

2.2     The questionnaire
   As shown in Figure 5, the questionnaire is structured in four parts, described below:
questions on household characteristics, pedagogical video treatments, questions on climate
    7
      We originally pre-registered a continuous variable for the donation but decided to switch to an indicator
for comparability with the other variables in this figure. The results with the original pre-registered variable,
which are even stronger, are in Appendix Figure A3.



                                                       10
Figure 4: Do Survey Responses Reflect Actual Behaviors? Correlation between self-reported
support and actual behaviors

  Support for main climate policies index                           Willingness to change behaviors index



                              Private Behaviors




            Willing to donate to reforestation cause




  Willing to sign petition supporting climate action




                                                       -0.05          0.00      0.05        0.10   0.15     0.20
                                                                                   Coeﬀicients


Note: The figure shows the correlation between the indicator variables listed in each row and the Support for
main climate policies index and Willingness to change behaviors index, controlling for country fixed effects
and socioeconomic characteristics, with 95% robust confidence intervals. Willing to donate to reforestation
cause equals 1 if the respondent is willing to donate a share of the money prize to deforestation. Willing
to sign petition supporting climate action equals 1 if the respondent is willing to sign a petition supporting
climate action. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.


change, and questions about views on climate policies. We kept the questionnaires as similar
as possible across countries while allowing for some appropriate variations. For example,
in some countries, we added questions about specific policies of relevance (e.g., a ban on
deforestation in Brazil and Indonesia). We omit some inappropriate questions (e.g., heating
expenses in tropical countries or cattle-related policies in India). Finally, necessary adjust-
ments were made to country-specific figures and examples (e.g., the gasoline price increase
implied by a carbon tax). Appendix A-6 provides the full questionnaire as well as links to
each country’s questionnaire in the original language.

Household characteristics. We ask the respondents about their basic socioeconomic
and demographic information, including their age, income, gender, zip code, type of area
of residence (i.e., size of their city), household composition, the highest level of education

                                                               11
                                              Figure 5: Survey outline

                                               Background of respondent
                         Socio-economic characteristics, political views, energy use, consumption habits

                                             Video information treatment

      Control group                  Climate impacts                  Climate policies                 Both treatments
     No video information                  Local impacts of                                                Climate impacts
           provided                         climate change                                                 + climate policies
                                                                • Ban on combustion-engine cars
                                                                • Carbon tax w/ cash transfers
                                                                • Green infrastructure program

                                Knowledge and understanding of climate change
                                      •   Climate change is real, anthropogenic, climate dynamics
                                      •   Factors causing climate change: gases, activities
                                      •   Impacts of climate change, prospects for the future


                                               Views on climate policies
 • Three main policies: ban on combustion-engine cars, green infrastructure program, carbon tax with cash transfers:
      • Policies’ effectiveness: will the policies reduce emissions/pollution?
      • Distributional impacts: which groups will win or lose?
      • Self-interest concerns: will your household win or lose?
      • Perceived fairness
      • Support for policy (and variations of it)
 • Support for a range of other climate policies: carbon taxes, emission standards, subsidies, mandatory insulation of
   buildings, policies to reduce beef consumption, global policies
 • Real-stake questions: willingness to donate to reforestation cause, willingness to sign a petition for climate action



achieved, occupation, wealth, and whether they are homeowners. We measure political
leanings through several questions: voting behavior in the latest national election, general
interest in politics, leaning on economic policy issues, and interest and participation in
environmental causes.
    An important set of questions centers around energy usage and lifestyle as related to
climate change. The answers to these questions allow us to assess how respondents may
personally be affected by climate policies. We ask households about their housing character-
istics (heating source and expenses and the quality of their home insulation), transportation
(fuel expenditures, modes of transport used, availability of public transportation, frequency
of flying), and beef consumption.

Information and Pedagogical Video Experiments. In the experimental part of the
paper, we show respondents in randomly selected subsamples one or both of two videos. The
“control group” sees no video. These treatments and the experimental results are described
in Section 6.

Knowledge of and attitudes toward climate change. We measure the respondent’s
knowledge and understanding of climate change by asking a series of general and more tech-
nical questions. These include whether climate change is human-caused, which greenhouse


                                                              12
gases (GHGs) contribute to it, and its possible impacts. We also ask respondents to rank
different activities, modes of transportation, types of food, and world regions regarding GHG
emissions.
    Furthermore, we elicit respondents’ attitudes on private climate action by asking how
climate change affects their lifestyle, the extent to which they are willing to adopt different
climate-friendly behaviors, and what factors would facilitate this adoption.

Views on climate policies. One of our core contributions is to elicit detailed reasoning
about climate change policies. In the final block of the survey, we explore how respondents
think about the three main climate policies explained in the videos (a ban on combustion-
engine cars, an investment program in green infrastructure, and a carbon tax with cash
transfers) and a range of other climate policies.
    Importantly, rather than only asking respondents about their support for the main poli-
cies, we also elicit their perceptions about the policy’s effectiveness in reducing emissions and
changing behaviors, effects on the economy and employment, distributional impacts (which
groups will lose or win?), impacts on their household (will they lose or win?), and fairness.
We further ask them about variations related to the sources of funding (in the case of the
green infrastructure program), how the revenue is spent (in the case of the carbon tax),
and policy bundles (e.g., a ban on combustion-engine cars combined with public provision
of alternative modes of transportation).
    The set of policies we test is informed by the literature and the policy discussions. We
intentionally do not limit the policies to only cover first-best instruments because of potential
trade-offs between efficiency and social acceptability or political economy. In addition to the
three main policies described above, we cover the following other policies.
    First, we assess support for several variants of carbon taxes, which differ in how the
revenues are earmarked. Second, we include several variants of bans on polluting cars, mo-
tivated by existing bans or restrictions for combustion-engine cars, for example, in Mexico
City (Davis 2008), or cities across Germany (Wolff 2014). The third group of policies in-
cludes support for investments in low-carbon technologies and green infrastructures. Fourth,
we elicit support for policies to reduce emissions from residential energy use. Fifth, we test
support for policies to reduce emissions from the agricultural sector, particularly cattle farm-
ing.8 Furthermore, we also assess support for a tax on flights (increasing ticket prices by
20%).

   In addition to self-reported policy support, we also ask two “real-stakes” questions re-
quiring the respondent to incur a cost to express their support for climate action: a donation
and a petition question, described in Section 2.1 and shown in Figure 4.

   8
    Globally, livestock accounts for nearly 15% of greenhouse gas emissions, with beef and cattle milk
production accounting for the majority of livestock emissions, contributing 41% and 20% respectively (Gerber
et al. 2013).




                                                    13
2.3    Outline of the analysis
    We define all variables used and constructed in Appendix A-1. The descriptive statistics
shown in Sections 3, 4, 5, and appendices are based on the control group sample only, i.e.,
respondents who see no pedagogical video. In the analysis, we usually correlate individ-
ual views and reasoning with two sets of individual covariates: i) individual socioeconomic
characteristics (e.g., age, gender, or income) and ii) lifestyle and energy usage characteris-
tics (e.g., car usage or heating source), “energy usage” for short. Whenever the effects of
these covariates are relatively homogeneous across countries, we show only the coefficient
on the pooled country sample (always including country fixed effects) and discuss possible
heterogeneities. If patterns are heterogeneous, we directly show the coefficients in differ-
ent countries. Our main results are shown separately for each country in Appendix A-4.
Furthermore, we repeat the entire analysis for each country in the country-specific Online
Appendices.


3     Knowledge and attitudes on climate change
This section describes respondents’ knowledge and understanding of climate change.

3.1    Knowledge across countries
    Few people outright deny the existence of climate change: the share is below 10% in
most countries and around 12% in Australia, France, and the U.S. Most people believe that
climate change is anthropogenic: one-third know that “most” (if not all) of it is due to
human activity, and, depending on the country, 60% to 90% of respondents believe that
human activity causes “a lot” or “most” of climate change.
Consequences of climate change. Most respondents (77-93%) correctly foresee some
of the consequences of unabated climate change, such as severe sea-level rise or droughts
and heatwaves (see Figure 6). At the same time, people do not seem to make a sufficient
distinction between different types of disasters. For instance, most also believe that climate
change will entail more frequent volcanic eruptions.
Greenhouse gas emissions. Respondents are generally too optimistic about the level of
decarbonization needed. One-half of respondents in high-income countries and more than
two-thirds of respondents in middle-income countries incorrectly believe that cutting GHG
emissions by half would suffice to stop global warming. Respondents are relatively well aware
of the factors that cause climate change, especially in high-income countries. 83% correctly
recognize that CO2 is a greenhouse gas, 60% that methane is one, and 66% that particulate
matter is not. Most of the classifications for different types of food and power generation
in terms of GHG footprint are also correct. However, a non-trivial share of respondents,
especially in middle-income countries, believe that nuclear power has a higher footprint than
gas or coal.


                                             14
                            Figure 6: Knowledge about climate change across countries:
                                            Share of correct answers
                                                                 H  i
                                                                A gh-
                                                                  us in
                                                                C tra co
                                                                  an lia m
                                                                D ada
                                                                  en
                                                                Fr ma
                                                                   a rk
                                                                G nce             e
                                                                  er
                                                                It ma
                                                                  al ny
                                                                Ja y
                                                                   p
                                                                Po an
                                                                    la
                                                                So nd
                                                                   ut
                                                                Sp h
                                                                   a K
                                                                U in orea
                                                                  ni
                                                                U ted
                                                                  ni K
                                                                 M   te in
                                                                     i  d gSt do
                                                                             at m
                                                                               es
                                                                B dd
                                                                  ra le
                                                                C zil -in
                                                                  hi
                                                                In na          co m
                                                                   di
                                                                In a
                                                                   do
                                                                M ne
                                                                   ex si            e
                                                                So ico a
                                                                   u
                                                                Tu th
                                                                    r A
                                                                U key fric
                                                                  kr  ai ne    a

CC is real, human-made, & its dynamics
 CC exists, is anthropogenic                                    70 63 69 63 57 73 84 65 75 80 80 70 63   81 84 74 80 81 87 81 82 76
 Cutting emissions by half insuﬀicient to stop global warming   53 52 53 64 54 70 52 59 40 34 55 55 46   27 28 15 16 13 37 33 38 44
GHG emission ranking
 GHG footprint of beef/meat is higher than chicken or pasta     80 81 81 86 73 85 82 73 78 85 74 85 76   58 65 49 50 53 55 74 60 58
 GHG footprint of nuclear is lower than gas or coal             64 67 62 73 51 57 66 73 71 72 50 71 60   47 42 51 45 53 42 54 32 58
 GHG footprint of plane is higher than car or train/bus         55 56 57 71 63 74 52 38 55 30 61 65 41   29 25 36 24 18 36 38 32 28
 Total emissions of China are higher than other regions         71 71 69 67 62 69 81 83 65 86 73 69 61   58 64 34 56 44 69 62 72 62
 Per capita emissions of the US are higher than other regions   49 38 48 64 49 59 61 35 53 27 52 46 55   44 53 34 42 33 49 44 55 45
CC gases
 Hydrogen is not a greenhouse gas                               85 80 75 89 85 91 92 93 89 91 85 81 77   76 84 70 82 77 75 71 63 87
 CO2 is a greenhouse gas                                        83 68 77 93 79 86 88 95 88 77 88 85 77   75 79 86 82 82 72 71 49 77
 Particulate matter is not a greenhouse gas                     66 71 60 75 53 46 69 83 71 54 70 71 66   68 65 61 78 80 60 73 55 64
 Methane is a greenhouse gas                                    60 77 72 62 46 63 36 41 48 68 68 75 64   51 57 42 42 34 60 61 71 48
CC impacts if CC goes unabated
 Severe droughts and heatwaves are likely                       87 84 90 88 85 88 91 90 89 90 86 87 77   86 81 89 84 93 79 89 91 86
 Sea-level rise is likely                                       86 83 84 93 83 87 90 91 86 90 85 90 78   84 77 87 84 92 82 86 82 78
 More frequent volcanic eruptions are unlikely                  44 42 37 63 38 59 49 52 31 31 41 41 43   26 33 23 21 19 33 26 22 36

      Note: Share of respondents who agree with the statements listed on the left. The statements represent the
      correct answer, according to the current scientific literature (see the sources in Appendix A-11). This figure
      only includes respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact
      phrasing of each question, see Appendix A-6.


          The answers about transportation modes are less accurate, especially in countries where
      the difference in emissions between trains and cars is smaller because of the lack of electrified
      railways. We ask respondents to imagine a family journey between two large cities in their
      country and rank the possible modes of transportation according to their greenhouse gas
      emissions. The options are Plane, Car, and Train (or Bus, depending on whether bus or
      train is the most commonly used option for such journeys).9 Respondents rank options more
      accurately in countries like Denmark or Germany, where trains are very low-carbon. They
      are less accurate in countries such as Indonesia or India, where trains are not unambiguously
      less carbon-intensive than the other options.
      Ranking regions of the world by emissions. We also ask respondents to rank China,
          9
           In countries such as Indonesia, where trains rely on coal, the environmental advantage of trains over cars
      is less clear. Respondents are thus asked about a family of two traveling 800 km from Surabaya to Jakarta
      instead of a family of four since a fully occupied car would be more efficient than the train. Featuring two
      passengers instead of four also blurs the comparison between the GHG footprint per passenger of a plane
      versus a car, as the two are comparable when there is only one passenger in the car.



                                                                    15
the U.S., the EU, and India by total and per capita emissions.10 Respondents rank regions
and countries quite accurately in terms of total emissions. However, many overestimate the
footprint of the average Chinese resident and underestimate that of the average European.11

3.2     Who has better knowledge?
    To summarize a respondent’s knowledge about climate change, we construct a Knowledge
index that summarizes the variables mentioned above and increases the more accurate a
respondent’s answers are (see Appendix A-1). We construct all indices in the paper in the
following three steps. First, we transform each underlying variable into a z-score (subtracting
the control group mean and dividing by the control group standard deviation). Second, we
take the average of the z-scores. Third, we standardize that average again by dividing it
by its standard deviation. In Figure 7, we regress the Knowledge index on respondents’
socioeconomic characteristics and variables that proxy for their energy usage.
    Across most countries, having a college degree is significantly associated with more accu-
rate knowledge. Also consistent across many countries is that respondents with left-leaning
economic views have more accurate perceptions than those with right-leaning views. On the
other hand, women are generally less accurate, except in Australia, South Korea, and the
U.K. (where there are no apparent differences by gender), in particular, because they tend to
perceive more negative potential impacts of climate change (which are not always accurate,
such as more frequent volcanic eruptions). The association between income and knowledge,
conditional on education, is either significantly positive or insignificant (see Tables A7-A8).
    The effect of age varies across countries (see Figure 7): age is positively correlated with
knowledge in most countries (Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Spain, Poland, India,
Turkey, Ukraine, the U.K., and the U.S.), but the correlation is negative in South Korea,
and insignificant in the remaining countries. Finally, respondents living with young children
are somewhat less accurate too.

3.3     Expectations about climate change
    Overall, expectations about the future are relatively bleak in high-income countries (see
Panel A of Figure A4). Typically, less than 40% of respondents think that it is technically
feasible to stop GHG emissions by the end of the century while maintaining satisfactory
living standards or that it is likely that humans will halt climate change by the end of the
century. Less than one-fifth of respondents in high-income countries think the world will be
more prosperous than today in a hundred years. A substantial share of respondents feels
that climate change, if nothing is done to limit it, could cause the extinction of humankind.
Respondents in middle-income countries are more worried about the effects of unfettered
climate change overall and on themselves; however, they are also more optimistic about
  10
    The respondent’s country was also added for the GHG footprint, except for EU countries.
  11
    The actual ranking for total emissions at the time of the survey is 1. China, 2. the U.S., 3. the EU, and
4. India. The true ranking for the per capita GHG footprint is as follows: U.S., EU, China, and India. To
avoid any systematic priming, we randomized the order in which countries/regions were displayed.

                                                     16
                     Figure 7: Who has better knowledge about climate change?
    (A) Correlation between knowledge (Knowledge index ) and socioeconomic characteristics
                            Demographics
                                     Woman
                    Lives with child(ren)<14


                                    Income
           Between 25th and 50th percentile
           Between 50th and 75th percentile
                       Above 75th percentile


                                 Education
         Has vocational or high-school degree
                         Has a college degree


                       Economic Leaning
                           Very Left leaning
                              Center leaning
                               Right leaning
                          Very Right leaning

                                              -0.50     -0.40   -0.30       -0.20       -0.10 0.00 0.10            0.20        0.30   0.40   0.50
                                                                                            Coeﬀicients


                                (B) Heterogeneous effects of age across countries

                                      Not signiﬁcant, p-val>0.10                  Nationally representative          Online representative
                                                                                        50+ years old
                                                                                              AUS
                                                                                              CAN
                                                                                                      DEU
                                                                                                             DNK
                                                                                                      ESP
                                                                            FRA
                                                                      ITA
                                                                        JPN

                                                      KOR
                                                                                          POL
                                                                                                             GBR
                                                                                                                   USA
                                                                      BRA
                                                                                  CHN

                                                                                                    IND
                                                                              IDN
                                                                  MEX

                                                                                                            TUR
                                                                                        UKR
                                                                ZAF



                                       -0.2                     0.0                          0.2                         0.4                  0.6
                                                                                         Coeﬀicients




Note: Panel A shows the coefficients from an OLS regression of the Knowledge index on indicators for
individual socioeconomic characteristics. Country fixed effects, treatment indicators, and age are included.
The coefficients on age are displayed separately in Panel B for each country to highlight the heterogeneity.
The omitted categories in Panel A are “man” for gender (gender: “other” is not displayed), lowest income
quartile for income, “no schooling, or highest level achieved is primary or lower secondary education” for
education; “left-leaning” for economic leaning. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard
errors. In Panel B, the omitted category is “18-34 years old” for age. The R2 is 0.18. Bars represent 90%
confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.


                                                                            17
    humans’ ability to halt climate change and the technical skills to do so while sustaining
reasonable living standards.
    The share of people who think climate change will affect their own life and humankind,
in general, is systematically higher in countries that are more vulnerable to climate change,
e.g., 77% in India compared to 14% in Denmark. Both these perceptions are positively
correlated (conditional on a high-income country dummy variable) with the University of
Notre Dame index of vulnerability to climate change (Chen et al. 2015). Thus, subjective
beliefs about the impacts of climate change are related to the country’s actual vulnerability
(see Figure A2).
    Within countries, certain groups tend to be more worried about unabated climate change:
women, younger, more educated, and left-leaning respondents (see Panel B of Figure A4).
Higher-income, college-educated, older, or left-leaning respondents are significantly more
optimistic about humans’ technical ability to halt climate change.

3.4     Willingness to adopt climate-friendly behaviors
    Our paper focuses on people’s understanding of and support for climate policies. However,
climate action can also take the form of individual behavior changes, which are conceptually
different. It is thus interesting to compare and contrast respondents’ willingness to adopt
climate-friendly behaviors with their support of public policies.12
    Around half of the respondents say they are willing to purchase a fuel-efficient or electric
vehicle and to limit flying, given current incentives (see Figure 8). Furthermore, except in
Italy and India, respondents are generally unwilling to significantly limit their beef or meat
consumption. Few are willing to limit driving or heating or cooling their homes by a lot.
    We also asked people about their willingness to adopt these behaviors under different
circumstances. The most important factors that would encourage people to adopt more
climate-friendly behaviors are that they receive enough financial support to make these
changes and that others, especially the most well-off, also change their behaviors.
    Importantly, recall that Figure 4 showed that self-reported willingness to adopt climate-
friendly behaviors is significantly positively correlated with being willing to take costly ac-
tions such as donating to a reforestation cause and signing a petition pushing for more
climate action.


4      Support for climate action across and within coun-
       tries
   This section describes support for climate policies across countries and respondents. One
aspect that complicates such an analysis is that a given policy (e.g., a carbon tax) may
  12
    The indices Willingness to change behaviors (which aggregates all the variables depicted in Figure 8) and
Support for Main Climate Policies (described in Section 6) are positively but not perfectly correlated (the
correlation is 0.6), confirming that, while positively associated, support for public policies and willingness to
take more private action given current policies and incentives are different.

                                                       18
             Figure 8: Share of respondents willing to adopt climate-friendly behaviors
                                                  H
                                                 A h-ig
                                                   us in
                                                       t
                                                 C ral com
                                                   an ia
                                                 D ada
                                                   en
                                                 Fr mar
                                                    an k          e
                                                 G ce
                                                   er
                                                 It an
                                                 Ja   m
                                                   al y
                                                      y
                                                    pa
                                                 Po nla
                                                 So nd
                                                    ut
                                                 Sp h K
                                                    ai o
                                                 U n rea
                                                   ni
                                                 U ed t
                                                  Mni K
                                                      te in
                                                         d gd
                                                           St o
                                                             at m
                                                               es
                                                 B dl id
                                                   ra e
                                                      z -
                                                 C il inc
                                                   hi na        om
                                                 In di
                                                 In a
                                                    do
                                                 M nes              e
                                                    ex ia
                                                 So ico
                                                    ut
                                                 Tu h A
                                                     rk fr
                                                 U ey ica
                                                   kr  aine


Willingness to adopt climate-friendly behaviors

   Have a fuel-eﬀicient or electric vehicle       54 46 51 61 45 43 78 48 53 57 60 53 52       69 78 65 74 66 70 60 73 62

   Limit ﬂying                                    51 37 54 51 57 65 64 38 58 43 62 48 40       54 52 59 65 54 58 48 44 49

   Limit beef/meat consumption                    40 31 38 33 38 45 62 24 49 36 43 44 38       44 44 49 61 48 40 33 35 36

   Limit driving                                  38 27 36 34 32 42 56 36 41 36 47 38 32       49 41 62 66 53 48 38 46 26

   Limit heating or cooling your home             35 25 28 31 40 36 55 27 37 29 45 30 31       48 46 55 67 59 59 39 34   9

Factors that would encourage behavior adoption

   The well-oﬀ also changing their behavior       61 54 61 58 59 62 80 58 58 60 65 63 55       67 71 53 71 70 61 71 77 59

   Having enough ﬁnancial support                 58 50 59 48 45 64 70 47 64 63 67 62 55       66 65 53 67 67 63 72 68 68

   One's community also changing behaviors        55 45 51 56 40 54 79 50 55 68 62 52 49       66 70 52 70 72 63 72 73 46

   Country adopting ambitious climate policies    49 39 43 46 42 55 71 47 50 61 57 41 36       58 57 68 70 62 52 51 61 30

Real-stakes

   Willing to donate to reforestation cause       77 71 75 69 72 72 85 83 83 86 75 75 82       91 84 99 92 96 86 90 85 92

   Willing to sign petition supporting climate action 69 54 70 60 66 67 77 73 81 83 84 68 51   90 75 96 96 96 90 88 87 84



Note: Willingness to adopt climate-friendly behaviors are answers to the question “To what extent would
you be willing to adopt the following behaviors? ” and Factors that would encourage behavior adoption
correspond to answers to the question “How important are the factors below in order for you to adopt a
sustainable lifestyle (i.e. limit driving, flying, and consumption, cycle more, etc.)? ”. Both questions use a
5-point scale: “Not at all ”, “A little”, “Moderately”, “A lot”, and “A great deal ”. Depicted are the shares of
respondents who answer “A lot” or “A great deal.” Real-stakes questions include the signature of a petition
to “stand up for real action” and an indicator equal to one if the respondents forfeit a share of their survey
lottery prize of $100 in case they win the lottery. The shares represented are based only on respondents in
the control group (who did not see any pedagogical videos).


generate different levels of support based on the bundle it is part of (e.g., a carbon tax with
revenues used to fund low-carbon technologies). While it would be convenient to consider
the tax side as separate from the revenue side, respondents’ views on tax-based policies
depend on the use of the revenue: Vice-versa, the source of revenues matters for policies
requiring funding. Policy bundles are complicated to study because there are many different
combinations. Our approach is, therefore, as follows. First, we provide evidence on several
key policies. Second, we shed light on the possible uses of revenue in the case of carbon
taxes, the sources of funding for the green infrastructure program, and policy bundles in the
case of combustion-engine car bans. Third, in Sections 5 and 6, we analyze the fundamental
factors associated with support for policies. This analysis can guide the evaluation and
predict support for other combinations and types of policies.

                                                              19
4.1     Support for different types of policies

Support for subsidies to low-carbon technology adoption and infrastructure poli-
cies. Figure 9 shows marked differences in the support for distinct policies. Subsidies for
low-carbon technologies and public investments in green technologies and infrastructures (fi-
nanced by public debt) receive more than 55% support in high-income countries and more
than 70% support in middle-income countries. There is equally high support for the manda-
tory and subsidized insulation of residential buildings across countries.
    The source of funding clearly matters. Figure A7 shows the answers to the question about
which sources of funding respondents would consider appropriate for public investments in
green infrastructures. Respondents tend to agree that appropriate funding sources are higher
taxes on the wealthiest and a carbon tax. They are much less likely to support additional
public debt, reductions in social spending, reductions in military spending, or increases in
sales taxes as appropriate sources of funding. These views are consistent with our results
below that people care about policies’ progressivity and effectiveness.

Bans on polluting vehicles. Many respondents also support banning polluting vehicles in
city centers or dense areas (60% in high-income countries and 71% in middle-income ones).
In high-income countries, support is 20% lower (12 percentage points) for a ban on the
sale of combustion-engine cars (even if alternatives such as public transportation would be
made available) and 45% (or 27 percentage points) lower for an outright ban on combustion-
engine cars (with no improvement in alternatives specified). We highlight the importance of
respondents’ alternative transportation modes for supporting climate policies in Section 6.
Furthermore, in EU countries, we also asked about an alternative policy, namely support for
a monetary penalty (of either e10,000 or e100,000) for the purchase of combustion-engine
cars.13 Generalized bans generate consistently higher support than penalties (see Figure
A6). Preference for bans and regulation over price mechanisms highlights some of the limits
of the “polluters pay” principle, which people may deem unfair, as the richest can pay their
way out of it. Bans, on the contrary, affect everyone.

Carbon taxes. At first glance, carbon taxes and especially taxes on fossil fuels appear to
be among the least popular policies. Taxes on fossil fuels and carbon taxes with revenues
used to fund equal transfers to everyone only generate 37% support in high-income countries
and 59% support in middle-income ones. However, the use of revenue matters substantially.
Carbon taxes with revenues used to fund environmental infrastructures, subsidize low-carbon
technologies, or reduce income taxes benefit from around 70% higher support in high-income
countries (for a level of support of around 60%) and 27% higher support in middle-income
countries (75%), compared with a carbon tax with equal cash transfers. Similarly, we observe
majority support for carbon taxes with transfers to the poorest or the most constrained
households. On the contrary, carbon taxes used to reduce corporate taxes generate similarly
  13
    The e10,000 penalty is in line with the future EU levels. We did not ask these questions in Denmark
and France, where the survey was completed slightly earlier.


                                                  20
low support as carbon taxes with equal transfers or as taxes on fossil fuels (for which the
use of revenues is not specified).

Agriculture-targeted policies. Finally, policies that reduce cattle farming are ranked
among the least popular in all countries. Bans on intensive cattle farming enjoy somewhat
higher support than either the removal of subsidies for cattle farming or a high tax on cattle
products overall (so that the price of beef doubles).

Support and opposition versus indifference. An important point when trying to map
these survey findings to real-world support for a policy is that across the range of policies we
test, around one-third of respondents state that they neither support nor oppose it. Figure
A5 shows the share of respondents who support a policy out of all respondents who express
either support or opposition (but not indifference). Although the ranking of policies and the
relative cross-country patterns are unchanged, among non-indifferent respondents, a majority
is in favor rather than against most policies. Figure A11 shows that women, respondents who
are lower-income, with a lower degree of education completed, or politically center-leaning
are more likely to be indifferent.
     These patterns suggest that indifference to climate policies may be a critical aspect to
consider. It is important to recognize that many citizens express a lack of opinion on these
issues. This expression may reflect a lack of interest in the topic, lack of knowledge, or actual
ambiguity and hesitation about climate action.

4.2     Cross-country comparisons
    We have to be cautious about comparing absolute levels of support between high-income
and middle-income countries, given the differences in sampling highlighted before.14
    Overall, support for the three central policies considered is lowest in Germany, France,
and Australia, followed by Denmark, Japan, the U.S., and, to some extent, the U.K and
Poland. Italy, South Korea, Spain, and Canada stand out as having overall higher support
and are on par with Brazil, South Africa, Turkey, and Ukraine (with the lowest support
among middle-income countries). Mexico and Indonesia have higher levels of support, and
support is almost consistently highest in India and China.
    Support for the carbon tax (and its variations) is particularly low in Australia, Poland,
Denmark, Germany, the U.K., and the U.S. Bans on combustion-engine cars see their lowest
support in Denmark, France, Germany, and the U.S., and their highest support in India and
China. Overall, countries that are more vulnerable to climate change show higher support
for climate policies (see Panel A of Figure A2).
    Cattle-related policies are unpopular in Japan, Turkey, Ukraine, South Africa, Australia,
and Denmark. Support for green infrastructure programs, and carbon taxes used to fund
  14
    Although we control for country fixed effects, differences in context and other policies already in place
may influence views heterogeneously among different groups of people. For instance, the status quo level of
taxes may heterogeneously influence how much appetite there is for more taxation across different groups.



                                                     21
        environmental infrastructures or low-carbon technologies, are highest in Italy and middle-
        income countries, especially in Brazil, China, Indonesia, Mexico, and South Africa. In Brazil
        and Indonesia, 76 to 78% of respondents support a complete ban on deforestation enforced
        by strong sanctions.
           Furthermore, although we focus on climate policies at the national level, when asked
        about the level at which climate policies should ideally be put in place, 70% to 93% of
        people choose the global level. Less than half of all respondents think that policies should
        be enacted mainly at the federal (or European), national (or state), or local levels.

        Figure 9: Share of respondents who support climate change policies (somewhat to strongly)
                                                                 H
                                                                A ghi
                                                                  us -in
                                                                C tra co
                                                                  an li m
                                                                D ad a
                                                                  en a
                                                                Fr ma
                                                                   a rk
                                                                G nce              e
                                                                  er
                                                                It ma
                                                                  al ny
                                                                Ja y
                                                                   p
                                                                Po an
                                                                    l
                                                                So and
                                                                   ut
                                                                Sp h
                                                                   a K
                                                                U in ore
                                                                  ni
                                                                U ted
                                                                  ni K          a
                                                                 M    te in
                                                                      i  d gSt do
                                                                              at m
                                                                                es
                                                                B dd
                                                                  ra le
                                                                C zil -in
                                                                  hi
                                                                In na            com
                                                                   di
                                                                In a
                                                                   do
                                                                M ne
                                                                   ex si             e
                                                                So ico a
                                                                   u
                                                                Tu th
                                                                    r A
                                                                U key fric
                                                                  kr   ai ne    a

Main Policies Studied
  Green infrastructure program                                  58 49 56 55 58 42 79 49 58 69 70 56 52   78 76 81 79 79 84 72 76 69
  Ban on combustion-engine cars                                 43 36 46 42 27 31 54 41 44 52 54 46 42   64 60 71 77 64 67 52 62 58
  Carbon tax with cash transfers                                37 34 42 31 28 27 47 35 35 53 43 36 34   59 47 79 70 66 56 52 56 39
Transportation Policies
  Ban on polluting cars in city centers                         60 53 60 67 58 49 76 64 60 52 64 66 50   71 64 73 73 85 73 65 60 67
  Ban on combustion-engine vehicles w. alternatives available   48 39 46 43 42 41 57 50 48 59 56 53 47   68 59 78 76 71 66 62 64 63
  Tax on ﬂying (+20%)                                           45 35 44 59 46 54 41 47 44 42 44 47 34   52 39 61 63 66 51 43 45 36
Energy Policies
  Subsidies to low-carbon technologies                          67 62 64 67 58 64 79 69 75 71 74 67 59   73 77 74 67 79 67 75 75 68
  Mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings              66 70 64 69 65 61 71 58 72 72 71 70 55   76    81          73 75 75
  Funding clean energy in low-income countries                  55 48 50 53 49 47 76 53 56 56 65 52 51   73 63 71 74 80 74 76 66 78
  Tax on fossil fuels ($45/tCO2)                                36 36 39 43 32 32 38 35 27 42 39 39 36   48 35 58 63 57 41 38 52 27
Food Policies
  Subsidies on organic and local vegetables                     56 43 49 60 54 56 71 44 73 62 65 50 45   68 62 80    77 58 59 81 57
  Ban of intensive cattle farming                               42 33 40 31 56 48 64 17 43 44 43 51 39   38 38 50    44 46 28 33 25
  Removal of subsidies for cattle farming                       34 31 33 32 29 39 43 15 33 30 41 37 41   39 43 47    49 47 27 31 22
  A high tax on cattle products, doubling beef prices           30 24 26 32 29 39 37 19 30 26 31 33 34   36 33 47    48 37 30 27 24
Support for Carbon Tax With:
  Funding environmental infrastructures                         63 59 48 60 66 61 76 56 68 78 69 63 58   75 78 77 71 81 73 79 73 69
  Subsidies to low-carbon tech.                                 63 58 49 53 58 66 76 67 71 79 69 61 56   73 74 80 67 79 72 78 66 66
  Reduction in personal income taxes                            57 51 47 38 64 53 72 63 68 62 68 51 49   69 69 74 66 73 69 68 67 64
  Cash transfers to the poorest households                      54 50 48 43 57 47 69 52 50 59 64 58 47   73 67 83 68 86 66 64 82 62
  Cash transfers to constrained households                      50 49 42 37 56 47 62 46 39 62 60 53 45   64 59 70 62 73 59 59 66 61
  Tax rebates for the most aﬀected ﬁrms                         48 40 40 37 53 34 66 48 61 59 55 41 42   62 59 72 64 67 54 63 56 56
  Reduction in the public deﬁcit                                48 40 39 34 52 41 65 50 56 48 61 44 49   63 62 71 64 69 61 62 58 52
  Progressive transfers                                         47 39 54       44 65 55 39 44 40 44      57 64 84 66 59 44 44 51 49
  Equal cash transfers to all households                        38 37 37 27 45 31 42 42 37 42 44 33 38   61 45 70 63 75 62 57 59 53
  Reduction in corporate income taxes                           37 28 31 24 37 25 55 38 47 48 50 26 31   58 54 67 58 66 61 49 60 42



        Note: Policy views are elicited on a 5-point scale “Strongly oppose,” “Somewhat oppose,” “Neither support
        nor oppose,” “Somewhat support,” and “Strongly support.” The figure shows the share of respondents
        to answer “Somewhat support” or “Strongly support” (see Figure A5 for support conditional on excluding
        indifferent respondents who “Neither support nor oppose”). The shares represented are based on respondents
        in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact phrasing of each question,
        see Appendix A-6.




                                                                  22
4.3     Individual characteristics correlated with support for climate
        policies
    To summarize support for climate policies, we construct a Support for Main Climate
Policies index based on the three main policies studied (see Appendix A-1 for details).15 In
Figure 10, we regress the Support for Main Climate Policies index on the sets of individual
socioeconomic and energy usage characteristics and country fixed effects. The results for each
of the three main policies separately are in Figure A8 but are overall very similar. Whenever
the average effects are relatively homogeneous across countries, we do not discuss country
heterogeneity specifically (all results are in Tables A10-A11). For unconditional shares of
support for the three main policies broken down by respondent characteristics, see Figures
A9 and A10.

Individual characteristics. Figure 10 shows that political leaning is one of the strongest
predictors of views on climate action: in most countries, left-leaning respondents are more
supportive of climate action. The exceptions are China, India, Indonesia, and Ukraine.
    In most countries, college-educated respondents are more likely to support climate action
(Australia, Brazil, China, Denmark, Indonesia, India, Italy, Mexico, Spain, the U.K., and
the U.S.). Income has mixed effects, as illustrated in Panel B. Higher-income respondents
are more supportive of climate action in Brazil, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Poland, and
Ukraine. There are no clear patterns by income for the other countries. Age also has mixed
effects. Older respondents in China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Poland, South Korea,
and Turkey are more supportive of climate action. However, in the online-representative
samples, older respondents (especially those above 65 years old) represent only a small and
possibly selected share of the population. Younger respondents are more likely to support
climate policies in some high-income countries such as Australia, France, and the U.S..
There is no significant heterogeneity by age in other EU countries or the U.K. In addition,
respondents who live with children below the age of 14 are more supportive of climate policies.

Lifestyle and energy usage factors. Access to public transportation exhibits one of the
strongest correlations with support for climate policy; the correlation is insignificant only in
China, Japan, Mexico, and Ukraine. Conditional on access to public transportation, those
who live in a large urban area have higher policy support only in Denmark, France, Turkey,
the U.K., and the U.S., but not in most countries. Thus, the availability of public transport
seems to be the first-order concern related to the area of residence. For all high-income
countries except the U.S., using a car regularly is associated with lower support for climate
action. However, in China, India, and Indonesia, car usage is positively associated with policy
support, conditional on income (see Figure A8 for detailed cross-country heterogeneity in
the effect of car usage). Conditional on car usage, high gas expenses matter only marginally
in Canada, Denmark, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, and Mexico. Frequent flyers tend to
support more climate action overall, except for a tax on flying (see Figure A12). Respondents
  15
     In brief, the index is an equally-weighted average of the standardized variables measuring support for
each of the three main policies, each coded from -2 (“Strongly oppose”) to +2 (“Strongly support”).


                                                    23
who consume beef at least weekly are less likely to support climate policies in Australia,
Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, the U.K., and the U.S..
    Figure A12 shows the correlations between support for a range of other climate policies
and individual characteristics. They are overall similar to the ones described for the main
policies. Car-dependent respondents are less supportive of bans on polluting cars (whether
those are overall bans, with enhanced alternatives, or limited to densely populated areas).
They also exhibit lower support for taxes on fossil fuels and carbon taxes with cash transfers
(only in Australia, France, Japan, Poland, and the U.K., see Figure A8). They do not
have different views on taxes on flying, green infrastructure programs, subsidies for low-
carbon technologies, or mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings. Homeowners and
landlords are less supportive of mandatory insulation but not less supportive of other climate
change actions.

Can policy views be explained by socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics? An
important question is how much of the variation in policy views we can predict using these
observable socioeconomic and energy usage characteristics. The R2 from the regression in
Figure 10 is 0.17, and would be 0.09 omitting country fixed effects. It increases to 0.24 if we
add a large set of interactions between the covariates (0.12 without country fixed effects).
Thus, while there are meaningful differences within countries, it is difficult to predict policy
views from observable socioeconomic and energy usage characteristics only. Put differently,
based on observables, it is difficult to delineate specific groups for or against climate policies.
We next turn to the beliefs associated with views on climate action.


5     Which factors predict support for climate policies?
   In this section, we study respondents’ understanding of climate policies, in particular,
how they perceive the policies’ effectiveness, economic effects, distributional consequences,
and impacts on themselves. We then analyze to what extent these beliefs can predict policy
support.

5.1    Perceived distributional and efficiency impacts across coun-
       tries
    Figure 11 summarizes how respondents think about the effects of the three main policies.
We distinguish between high-income countries and middle-income countries and also consider
China, India, and Indonesia separately because they exhibit significantly different patterns
(for a country-by-country plot, see Figures A13 - A15).

Perceived environmental benefits. The environmental benefits of climate policies are
largely acknowledged: in both high-income and middle-income countries, a majority of re-
spondents agree that the three policies would reduce air pollution and GHG emissions.
France ranks as the most pessimistic country regarding perceived effectiveness, followed


                                                24
                                         Figure 10: Which respondents support climate action?
       (A) Correlation between “Support for main climate policies index” and socioeconomic and energy
       usage characteristics
                        Demographics                                                                                        Place Charac.

                                                                                                                   Small agglomeration
                Lives with child(ren)<14
                                                                                                              Medium agglomeration

                                                                                                                   Large agglomeration

                             Education                                                                  Public transport available


     Has vocational or high-school degree
                                                                                                                            Energy Usage
                     Has a college degree                                                                                                      Uses car

                                                                                                                          High gas expenses

                                                                                                               High heating expenses
                   Economic Leaning
                                                                                                      Flies more than once a year
                       Very Left leaning                                                                Works in polluting sector

                          Center leaning                                                           Eats beef/meat weekly or more


                           Right leaning
                                                                                                                    Personal Charac.
                      Very Right leaning                                                                                  Owner or landlord

                                        -0.40   -0.20     0.00      0.20              0.40                                                                  -0.40         -0.20        0.00     0.20                         0.40
                                                        Coeﬀicients                                                                                                                 Coeﬀicients

25                              (B) Heterogeneous effects of gender, age, and income across countries

                                                Not signiﬁcant, p-val>0.10                               Nationally representative                                                Online representative
                                                                      Woman                                                50+ years old                                             Above median income
                                                                      AUS                                                                                                                              AUS
                                                                                                                          AUS
                                                                                                                                   CAN                                                            CAN
                                                                CAN
                                                                  DEU                                                            DEU                                                       DEU

                                                                                                                                      DNK                                                        DNK
                                                                               DNK
                                                                         ESP                                                           ESP                                                             ESP

                                                                         FRA                                                                                                               FRA
                                                                                                                    FRA
                                                                        ITA                                                        ITA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ITA

                                                                                JPN                                                             JPN                                                     JPN
                                                                  KOR                                                                                                                                  KOR
                                                                                                                                                  KOR
                                                                         POL
                                                                                                                                                  POL                                                 POL
                                                                       GBR                                                      GBR                                                                GBR

                                                                        USA                                                                                                                        USA
                                                                                                             USA
                                                                              BRA                                                        BRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                BRA
                                                                        CHN                                                                                                                            CHN
                                                                                                                                                CHN
                                                                        IND
                                                                                                                                                      IND                                                            IND
                                                                        IDN
                                                                                                                                                      IDN                                                              IDN
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEX
                                                                MEX                                                                               MEX
                                                                   TUR                                                                                                                             TUR
                                                                                                                                                              TUR
                                                                       UKR                                                             UKR
                                                                                                                                                                                                               UKR
                                                                                                                                         ZAF                                               ZAF
                                                                ZAF



                                                -0.4     -0.2     0.0      0.2        0.4    0.6      -0.4         -0.2          0.0      0.2           0.4         0.6    -0.4     -0.2     0.0      0.2              0.4    0.6
                                                                 Coeﬀicients                                                    Coeﬀicients                                                 Coeﬀicients




       Note: Panel A shows the coefficients from a regression of the Support for main climate policies index
       on socioeconomic indicators (left panel) and energy usage indicators (right panel). In the right panel, we
       control for but do not display the coefficients on socioeconomic indicators. Country fixed effects, age, gender,
       income, and treatment indicators are included but not displayed. The R2 is 0.17. The omitted category
       for Place characteristics is “Rural or very small agglomeration.” See the notes in Figure 7 for a list of all
       omitted categories. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. Panel B reports
       the coefficients on being 50 years and older (relative to being aged between 18 and 34 years), being a woman
       (relative to being a man), and being in the top two quartiles of the income distribution (relative to being in
       the first quartile). Bars represent 90% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1
       for more precise definitions of the variables.
    closely by Germany and the U.S., and Denmark to a lesser extent. Most optimistic about
effectiveness are respondents in India, Indonesia, Japan, and South Africa.
    Respondents in high-income countries are somewhat divided about the behavioral effects
of the policies, such as encouraging people to drive less or making greater use of public
transportation. For instance, in Japan, Poland, South Korea, and Spain, more than 55% of
respondents believe that a carbon tax would encourage people to drive less, but this share is
only around 40% in France or Germany. By contrast, respondents in middle-income countries
tend to believe in these behavioral effects.

Perceived economic effects. Few respondents think that climate policies will have positive
impacts on the economy and employment, although this share is somewhat higher in middle-
income countries. When asked about whether each of the policies is a cost-effective versus
costly way to fight climate change, respondents rank a carbon tax as the most costly, followed
by the green infrastructure program and the ban on combustion-engine cars. Perceived costs
and negative economic impacts of the carbon tax are particularly high in the U.S., France,
Denmark, Germany, and the U.K. (in this order).

Perceived distributional impacts. In most countries, the three main policies are often
considered regressive. In high-income countries, at most one-quarter of respondents believe
that low-income earners, the middle class, and those living in rural areas would gain from a
green infrastructure program or from a carbon tax with transfers. In contrast, around 40% of
respondents believe that high-income earners will experience a net positive gain from these
three policies. Note that we do not attribute too much importance to the absolute share of
respondents who believe that a given group will benefit from climate policies but rather to
the relative shares who think poorer versus richer people will gain. While the distributional
impacts of the ban on combustion-engine cars and the green infrastructure program are
ambiguous in most countries, a carbon tax with equal cash transfers is progressive.
    In middle-income countries (other than China, India, and Indonesia), respondents per-
ceive the distributional impacts of the green infrastructure program more positively, but
they are still wary of the possible effects of a carbon tax and combustion-engine bans on
low-income, rural, and middle-class households. In India, Indonesia, and China, these pat-
terns are quite different, and respondents are substantially less likely to consider the three
main policies as regressive. The share of respondents who think that policies will bene-
fit high-income households is generally smaller than the share who think they will benefit
lower-income households, especially for the carbon tax with transfers.

Perceived impacts on one’s household. Overall, respondents are similarly pessimistic
about the financial effects of the three policies on their households as they are about their
impact on middle-class or rural families. Less than one-fifth of respondents in high-income
countries think their household would financially gain from these policies. Respondents in
middle-income countries are somewhat more optimistic about the effects on their households,
and respondents in China, India, and Indonesia are significantly more optimistic.



                                             26
   In summary, many respondents see these three key policies as environmentally effective
but regressive and against their financial interests.
                           Figure 11: Perceived characteristics of the main policies
                                                                 Green Infrastructure       Carbon Tax          Ban on Combustion-Engine
                                                                       Program           w. Cash Transfers                 Cars
                                                                 High Indonesia Other
                                                                        India Middle     High Indonesia Other
                                                                                                India Middle      High Indonesia Other
                                                                                                                         India Middle
                                                                Income China   Income   Income China   Income    Income China   Income


Eﬀectiveness of Main Climate Policies
  Reduce air pollution                                           77    84     82          69    84    78           79   85    83
  Reduce GHG emissions/Reduce CO2 emissions from cars                                     64    80    71           74   79    77
  Make electricity production greener                            71    80     77
  Encourage insulation of buildings                                                       64    72    67
  Increase the use of public transport/Encourage less driving    61    77     67          51    75    64
  Positive eﬀect on economy and employment                       37    44     45          31    41    41           35   40    39
  Costless way to ﬁght climate change                            30    39     38          27    37    34           39   38    37
Distributional Impacts of Main Climate Policies
Believes the following groups would gain
  Those living in rural areas                                    24    61     41          20    57    32           16   50    25
  Low-income earners                                             21    57     40          22    56    31           12   50    24
  The middle class                                               22    54     43          21    51    31           15   46    26
  High-income earners                                            39    52     50          33    45    37           40   50    47
Self-Interest
  Believes own household would gain                              23    61     40          20    57    28           15   50    24
Perceived Fairness and Support
  Support main climate policies                                  58    80     75          37    72    50           43   71    60
  Main climate policies are fair                                 51    76     67          35    66    47           40   67    52



Note: The questions on effectiveness and fairness have answer options Strongly disagree/Somewhat dis-
agree/Neither agree nor disagree/Somewhat agree/Strongly agree. We report the share of respondents who
answer “Somewhat agree” or “Strongly agree.” Questions on the distributional impacts and self-interest
have answer options Lose a lot/Mostly lose/Neither win nor lose/Mostly win/Win a lot. Depicted is the
share of respondents who say “Mostly win” or “Win a lot.” “Support main climate policies” has answer
options Strongly oppose/Somewhat oppose/Neither support nor oppose/Somewhat support/Strongly support.
We show the share of respondents who “Somewhat support” or “Strongly support.” The shares represented
are based only on respondents in the control group (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact
phrasing of each question, see the Questionnaire in Appendix A-6.



5.2        How do different groups of respondents reason about climate
           policies?
    Figure 12 regresses the perceived effectiveness, distributional impacts, and own impacts
of the main policies on individual socioeconomic and lifestyle indicators and country fixed
effects. We pool the three policies together because the patterns are similar.16
    Higher-income respondents are more optimistic about the policies’ effectiveness in re-
ducing emissions. Respondents with young children are less likely to think that they will
personally lose from these policies or that the policies are regressive.
  16
       For unconditional average perceptions by socioeconomic group, see Figures A16-A17.

                                                                      27
Figure 12: How different groups perceive the effectiveness and distributional effects of the
three main climate policies

                 Believes the policy would have positive econ. eﬀects                 Believes the policy would reduce emissions
                 Believes own household would lose                                    Believes low-income earners would lose

                   Demographics                                                                  Place Charac.
                            Woman
                                                                                             Small agglomeration
           Lives with child(ren)<14
                                                                                          Medium agglomeration
                                                                                             Large agglomeration
                           Income
                                                                                        Public transport available
  Between 25th and 50th percentile
  Between 50th and 75th percentile
              Above 75th percentile                                                              Energy Usage
                                                                                                         Uses car
                        Education                                                              High gas expenses
Has vocational or high-school degree                                                       High heating expenses
                Has a college degree                                                  Flies more than once a year
                                                                                        Works in polluting sector
              Economic Leaning
                                                                                   Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                  Very Left leaning
                     Center leaning
                                                                                             Personal Charac.
                      Right leaning
                 Very Right leaning                                                            Owner or landlord

                                       -0.40   -0.20   0.00     0.20   0.40                                      -0.40   -0.20      0.00     0.20   0.40
                                                    Coeﬀicients                                                                  Coeﬀicients

Note: The figure shows the coefficients from two regressions. In the left panel, the indices listed along the
vertical axis are regressed on indicator variables for socioeconomic characteristics and country fixed effects
and treatment indicators (not shown). In the right panel, the same indices are regressed on energy usage
indicators, country fixed effects, treatment indicators, and socioeconomic characteristics (not shown). Each
index is constructed by averaging the z-scores of the answers to a given question (e.g., “believes policies
would have economic effects”) across all three main policies and standardizing again. Bars represent 95%
confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for more detailed variable definitions.
See the notes to Figure 10 for a list of the omitted categories.


    Age has mixed effects. In middle-income countries, older respondents tend to be more
likely to believe that policies reduce emissions and less likely to think that they or low-
income earners will lose. In some high-income countries (Australia, Canada, Denmark,
France, Germany, the U.K., and the U.S.), older respondents are more likely to think they
or low-income earners will lose. Gender typically has small and insignificant effects.
    Although not consistently significant, having a college degree is associated with more
optimism about the effectiveness of policies in reducing emissions and less pessimism about
the impact on oneself and lower-income households.
    In high-income countries, there is a clear political gradient for most perceptions: Left-
leaning respondents are likelier to believe that policies will have positive economic impacts
and reduce emissions and less likely to believe that high-income or low-income earners would

                                                                              28
lose. Differences by political leaning are usually not significant in middle-income countries.
    Some lifestyle and energy usage characteristics are strongly correlated with a more posi-
tive outlook on the policies’ effectiveness, progressivity, and own financial impacts. These in-
clude having public transportation available, being a frequent flyer, not being car-dependent,
and not having high gas expenses (conditional on car usage).17
    As was the case for policy views, the set of socioeconomic and energy usage characteristics
and country fixed effects (including a large set of interactions of these variables) can only
explain around 11% of the variation in perceptions about policies’ effectiveness, 20% of
perceived impact on low-income households, and 18% of the own perceived impact, with
country fixed effects accounting for about half of all the variation explained. Therefore,
these individual characteristics are important in shaping reasoning but are not the whole
story.
    Interestingly, respondents’ perceptions of their own gains and losses are significantly
correlated with and predicted by socioeconomic and energy usage characteristics, but the
prediction is imperfect. Thus, respondents’ perceived threat from climate policies depends
on more than just these factors.

5.3     Factors predicting policy support
    To determine which beliefs are correlated with support for climate policy, we regress
support for each of the three main climate policies on the respondents’ socioeconomic char-
acteristics and on a set of standardized variables and indices measuring beliefs about climate
change and climate policies. The results are shown in Panel A of Figure 13.18 Panel B
reports the share of the variance in support for the three policies (as summarized by the
Support for Main Climate Policies index) that is explained by each variable.19 Overall, 70%
of policy views are explained by these beliefs and socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics,
compared to 17% explained by individual characteristics only.
    First, the perceived distributional impacts of climate policies are strongly correlated with
policy support. Most important (in terms of the share of variation explained) is the perceived
effectiveness of a policy, as measured by the belief that it will reduce emissions and the belief
that it will reduce pollution. Beliefs in the effectiveness of policies to reduce emissions and
pollution together account for 24% of differences in policy support.
    Second, self-interest is also important: those who think they will themselves lose from a
given policy are much less likely to support it. This belief alone explains 15% of the variation
in policy views. Related to self-interest, the belief that one will suffer from climate change
accounts for 4% of differences in policy support.
  17
     We define having high gas expenses as expenses above the median of the respondent’s income group.
However, the results are not sensitive to this definition.
  18
     For country-by-country results, see Tables A13 and A14.
  19
     We follow Grömping (2007) and Lindeman, Merenda and Gold (1980). To overcome the dependency of
a simple ANOVA on the order of the covariates in the regression, this method averages ANOVAs over all
permutations of the covariates.




                                                 29
    Third, the perceived progressivity of a policy also exhibits substantial correlation: re-
spondents who believe that low-income earners will lose are less supportive of the policy.
In a few countries (Canada, France, India, Japan, Mexico, Spain, Turkey, and Ukraine) the
belief that the high-income earners will lose is even positively associated with support for it
(see Tables A13-A14). Across countries, the belief that poor people will lose from climate
policies accounts for 8% of the variation in policy views. Furthermore, there is a close con-
nection between the respondent believing that a policy is “fair” and supporting it (the raw
correlation between these variables is 0.89).
    Broader perceived economic effects or concerns about the impacts of climate change
overall are not as strongly correlated with policy support. Believing that a policy will
positively impact the economy is associated with slightly higher policy support. Similarly,
knowledge about climate change is a weak predictor of support for climate policies, although
there is a small significant effect of the belief that climate change is human-made.20
    Support for climate policies and individual willingness to change behavior are not driven
by the same beliefs, suggesting that they have different underlying motivation. Compared to
support for public policy action, respondents’ willingness to privately adopt climate-friendly
behaviors is much more associated with concerns about the consequences of climate change
and that they would suffer from the main climate policies (see Figure A18).
    One important caveat is that respondents may exhibit motivated reasoning, whereby they
adapt their stated perceptions and beliefs about the effectiveness or distributional impacts
of policies to rationalize their policy views. While it is not entirely possible to rule motivated
reasoning out, we test for it by running an additional survey on 1,000 respondents in the US,
in which we incentivize the responses to the questions related to knowledge about climate
change, policies’ effectiveness, and their distributional impacts. The full survey questionnaire
is in Appendix A-8, and the results are in Appendix A-7.
    Appendix Table A21 shows that incentives have no effect on the answers to knowledge
questions and a minimal effect on some of the questions about effectiveness. Most impor-
tantly, however, the correlations between policy support and the underlying beliefs about
policies are not significantly affected by the provision of incentives.


6      Experimental results: the causal effects of informa-
      tion
    This section presents the results from the experimental part of the paper, which showed
respondents information about climate change and climate policies using videos. This ex-
perimental variation allows us to establish the causal effects of specific types of information.
It also serves to causally confirm the importance of the factors which were shown to be most
predictive of policy views in Section 5.
  20
     Overall, our results across 20 countries confirm some of the patterns observed for specific countries, as
discussed in the introduction, where the importance of perceived fairness, effectiveness, and self-interest has
been highlighted (Carattini, Carvalho and Fankhauser 2018; Douenne and Fabre 2022; Klenert et al. 2018).



                                                      30
               Figure 13: Beliefs underlying support for the main climate policies
               (A) Correlation between support for the three main policies and beliefs
              Ban on combustion-engine cars        Green infrastructure program                          Carbon tax with cash transfers


                             Trust and General Perceptions
                                           Trusts the government
                     Believes inequality is an important problem

                              Views about Climate Change
                          Worries about the consequences of CC
                          Believes net-zero is technically feasible
                         Believes will suﬀer from climate change

                              Climate Change Knowledge
                 Understands emissions across activities/regions
                        Knows CC is real & caused by humans
                                 Knows which gases cause CC
                                   Understands impacts of CC

                              Eﬀects of Each Climate Policy
             Believes the policy would have positive econ. eﬀects
                       Believes the policy would reduce pollution
                       Believes the policy would reduce emissions

           Distributional Impacts of Each Climate Policy
                            Believes own household would lose
                        Believes low-income earners would lose
                       Believes high-income earners would lose
                                                                  -0.20                         -0.10                0.00                 0.10
                                                                                                           Coeﬀicients
   (B) Share of the variation in Support for main climate policies explained by different beliefs

                                     Believes own household would lose                                                       14.5

                                Believes policies would reduce emissions                                                    14.0

                                Believes policies would reduce pollution                                           10.1

                                 Believes low-income earners would lose                                      8.3

                    Believes the policy would have positive econ. eﬀects                       4.4

                                 Worries about the consequences of CC                         4.2

                                Believes will suﬀer from climate change                       4.0

                                 Believes net-zero is technically feasible               3.3

                                                                 Country                3.0

                                 Knows CC is real & caused by humans              2.0

                                                 Trusts the government           1.6


                                                                             0                       5               10             15
                                                                                               % of response variances

Note: Panel A shows the coefficients from a regression of support for each policy (indicator variable equal to
1 if the respondent supports the policy somewhat or strongly) on standardized variables measuring respon-
dents’ beliefs and perceptions. Country fixed effects, treatment indicators, and individual socioeconomic
characteristics are included but not displayed. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust stan-
dard errors. Panel B depicts the share of the variance in the Support for main climate policies index that is
explained by each belief and perception, conditional on country fixed effects. We use the LMG method (see
Grömping 2007) for the variance decomposition. See Appendix A-1 for detailed variable definitions.




                                                                  31
6.1     The information treatments
    We show respondents in randomly selected subsamples one or both of two pedagogical
videos (see the survey flow in Figure 5). The “control group” sees no video. The Climate
impacts video, which is 2-3 minutes long, centers on the impacts of climate change, with
information that is tailored to the country of the respondent. The Climate policies video (5
minutes long) focuses on three major climate policies and is also adapted to each country’s
specifics.21 The objective of these treatments is to understand how perceptions change after
receiving salient information on the effects of climate change or climate policies and how
these perceptions and beliefs causally translate into policy support. Appendix A-6 contains
the scripts and links to the videos; Appendix A-11 contains the data sources used. Table
A33 shows that our treatment assignment is balanced across socioeconomic and energy usage
characteristics.
    The video on Climate impacts starts by explaining that climate change is anthropogenic
and is likely to have adverse impacts on the respondent’s country if nothing is done to reduce
it. Some of the impacts presented include more severe heatwaves, frequent forest fires, and a
growing number of areas at risk of being permanently flooded due to sea-level rise (see Panel
A in Figure 14).22 The video concludes that reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is
necessary to tackle climate change.
    The video on Climate policies focuses on the three significant climate policies studied in-
depth in the survey and describes some of their advantages and drawbacks. Importantly, the
policies covered are not first-best policies but rather realistic alternatives already adopted
in some shape or under discussion in many countries. We also do not only highlight the
positive aspects of these policies. Instead, we describe their costs as well as their benefits.
    First, the video presents a ban on the production and sale of new combustion-engine cars
that emit more than a given (time-varying) threshold of CO2 per kilometer.23 The threshold
is progressively lowered so that only electric (or hydrogen) vehicles can be sold by 2030.
The video also alerts respondents that electric vehicles may have a lower range and be more
expensive.
    Second, the video describes a carbon tax with cash transfers. We directly tell the respon-
dents about the increase in the implied price of gasoline in local currency (e.g., $0.40 per
gallon in the U.S. and e0.10 per liter in France).24 The video explains that the tax makes
fossil fuels more expensive. Hence, companies and individuals are likely to reduce their fossil
fuel consumption and, thus, CO2 emissions. It also informs the respondents about the cash
transfer per adult that the tax revenues can finance (see Appendix A-11.1.1 for the com-
putations). Furthermore, the video explains that equally redistributing the revenues across
  21
     Because we compute all descriptive statistics using the control group, we made it 25% larger than the
other groups. It contains 29.4% of the sample, while the three treatment branches each contain 23.5% of the
sample.
  22
     In Canada and Denmark, we also mention potential positive effects on crop production.
  23
     This policy is similar to fuel economy standards that have been implemented in many countries, including
the U.S., the European Union, China, and India (Anderson and Sallee 2016)
  24
     Implicitly, we use a price of carbon $45 per ton of CO2 , close to estimates of the social cost of carbon in
Marron and Maag (2018), as explained in Appendix A-11.1.1


                                                       32
     Figure 14: Select Screenshots from the pedagogical videos


(A) Climate impacts video                     (B) Climate policies video




                                33
all people means that low-income earners will, on average, receive more cash transfers than
they pay in taxes. The reverse holds for high-income earners (see Panel B in Figure 14).
Therefore, the video clarifies the progressivity of such a scheme, which, as we showed in
Section 5, needs to be better understood.
    Third, the video discusses the effects of an extensive public investment program in green
infrastructure in transportation, energy, building insulation, and agriculture financed by
additional public debt. It estimates the number of jobs created in non-polluting sectors
and jobs lost in polluting sectors.25 Finally, the video reminds respondents that, although it
focuses on three essential policies, many others could be useful and needed to combat climate
change.

6.2     Treatment effects on support for climate policies
    Figure 15 depicts the effects of the video treatments on the pooled (all countries) sample.26
These treatment effects largely confirm the correlations outlined in Section 5 about which
factors matter most for policy support.27
    In the cross-country pooled data, the Climate impacts treatment has the smallest effects
on support for each of the policies. It is statistically significant in very few individual coun-
tries. The effects of the Climate policies treatment are much stronger, especially on support
for the carbon tax with cash transfers and, to a lesser extent, for the ban on combustion-
engine cars. The strongest impacts are found for the combination of the Climate impacts
and Climate policies treatments, which are roughly equal to the sum of the two treatments’
impacts. The treatment effects are largest for the carbon tax with cash transfers, followed
by the ban on combustion-engine cars and the green infrastructure program. All three
treatments have significant and large effects on the perceived fairness of the three policies.
    Support for the green infrastructure program has the highest baseline level and sees
the smallest treatment effects among the three policies. The combination of the Climate
impacts and Climate policies treatments increases support for it in Australia, Canada, China,
Denmark, Indonesia, South Africa, Spain, and the U.K., and the treatment effect represents
on average 13% of the control group’s support in these countries. However, because baseline
support is high, the apparently small treatment effect is equivalent to 54% of the share of
those who oppose the program in the control group for the high-income countries listed.
  25
      Economists have advocated for green infrastructure investment programs for many years to accelerate
the transition towards a low-carbon economy (Hepburn et al. 2020; High Level Commission on Carbon Prices
2017). Over the past years, many governments have started to launch such programs, including the EU’s
Green Deal (EC 2019) and programs adopted in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic, such as the Next
Generation EU fund (EC 2020) and the U.S. Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (US Congress 2021).
   26
      For treatment effects by country, see Tables A16-A17. For the shares of support for all policies by
treatment group, see Figure A19.
   27
      In Appendix Figures A21 and A22, we perform a “reverse IV” exercise. We compare the treatment
effects on policy supports to the effects predicted by the correlations between underlying beliefs from Panel
A of Figure 13 and policy views and the treatment effects on these beliefs. We find that these two effects
closely match for all policies, but there is a larger gap for the carbon tax support, suggesting that there
might be other concerns related to it that we are not entirely capturing.


                                                     34
    Turning to the ban on combustion-engine cars, the Climate policies treatment alone is
significant only in a few countries (Australia, Denmark, France, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, and
South Africa). The combined treatment has significant effects in the pooled sample of all
countries and in Australia, Brazil, China, Denmark, France, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico,
South Africa, Spain, Turkey, and the U.K. In those countries, the effect of the combined
treatment is equivalent to 21% of the control group mean on average, ranging from 7% in
Indonesia (which starts with a high level of baseline support) to 42% in Australia. The
treatment effect size is also equivalent to 56% of the share who oppose the policy in the
control group and to 33% of the gap in support between left- and right-wing respondents in
the above-listed countries.
    Finally, regarding the carbon tax with transfers, the Climate policies treatment increases
support significantly in all countries except Mexico. The magnitudes correspond to 27% of
the control group mean (ranging from 11% in China to 55% in Germany), 62% of the share
who oppose this program, and on average to 58% of the gap between left- and right-wing
respondents in countries where it is significant. The combination of the Climate impacts
and Climate policies treatments have even stronger effects in all countries (except Canada,
Germany, India and Turkey). The effects are equivalent to 33% of the control group mean
(ranging from 7% in China to 60% in Denmark) and to 67% of the opposition in countries
where the effect is significant.

Heterogeneity in treatment effects. We systematically explored potential heterogeneous
treatment effects by socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics and did not find significant
or systematic heterogeneity in treatment effects along these dimensions. Overall, the video
treatments have a larger effect on policies that start with lower support and that have more
room for improvement. They sway sizable shares of respondents as benchmarked against the
share who oppose each policy in the control group. The effects of the combined treatment
are the strongest.

Treatment effects on support for other policies. There are significant treatment
effects on support for policies other than our main ones as well, especially those that are the
most closely related. The Climate policies and the combined treatment both significantly
increase support for carbon taxes under all revenue usage scenarios (see Figure A20). These
two treatments also significantly increase support for the simple tax on fossil fuels without
transfers (with an effect size equal to around 20% of the control group mean) and a tax on
flying, presumably because it is also associated with reducing fuel usage (see Figure 15).
    There are significant treatment effects on a ban on combustion-engine cars with alterna-
tives made available and on a ban on polluting cars in city centers, which are more popular
than the simple ban on combustion engine cars, even after adjusting the p-values for multiple
testing.28 However, policies that are not closely related to the ones presented in the video,
such as mandatory building insulation, do not have significantly higher levels of support in
  28
     We use the method by Benjamini and Hochberg (1995) to adjust the p-values on the coefficients of the
treatment indicators for the ten policy support outcome variables.



                                                   35
the treatment group compared to the control group.29

Private action, real-stakes measures, and public policy support. The treatment
effects on private behaviors and on real-stakes measures (donating to the reforestation cause
and signing a petition supporting climate action) are different from those on policy support.
For private behaviors and real-stakes measures, the Climate impacts video and the combined
video have the strongest effects. These treatments significantly increase (at the 5% signifi-
cance levels) the willingness to sign a petition, to adopt climate-friendly behaviors, and to
donate a higher share of the prize money to the reforestation cause. Therefore, stronger con-
cerns about the consequences of climate change can push respondents to take more actions,
including incurring time and financial costs during the survey. On the contrary, the Cli-
mate policies treatment generates demand for public policies, but not private action. These
distinct patterns suggest that the effects of the treatment videos are due to their specific
information content rather than to simple priming about climate change.

6.3     Interpretation of the treatment effects
    To interpret these treatment effects, consider Figure 16, which shows the treatment effects
on a range of underlying beliefs.30 While it is challenging to point to the exact mechanisms,
this figure provides a lot of information.
    The Climate impacts treatment increases concerns about climate change and improves
understanding of it (e.g., that it is real and caused by humans and which GHGs and activities
contribute to it). We interpret this as suggesting that the information was not already known
to respondents nor that it was too abstract.31 However, these beliefs were shown not to be
strong predictors of support for new climate policies (as described above). This treatment
does not shift the key mechanisms that matter for policy support, namely their perceived
effectiveness, distributional impacts, and impacts on one’s household. The Climate policies
and the combined treatment shift exactly the beliefs that are most predictive of policy
support, namely, the perceived impacts on others and oneself and the effectiveness of the
policies. In particular, the share of respondents that believes low-income people will on net
gain from a carbon tax with cash transfers jumps from 30% in the control group to 47%
among those who saw the Climate policies video.
  29
      These patterns provide some reassurance that the treatment effects are not due to experimenter demand
effect, whereby respondents infer that we (the experimenters) want them to express support for climate
action; instead they suggest that only the specific aspects about which information has been provided are
shifted by the treatments. This is further bolstered by the ‘first-stage’ effects on underlying beliefs in Figure
16.
   30
      Although we do not use the treatment assignment as an instrumental variable, it can be helpful intuitively
to think of these underlying perceptions and beliefs as “first-stage” variables and of the policy views as
“second-stage” outcomes.
   31
      Leiserowitz (2006) emphasized the role of affect for climate change concerns in 2006. In our case, almost
twenty years later, many respondents are already concerned about climate change. Our treatment shifts
their understanding and concerns even though it does not appeal to emotions.




                                                       36
    Thus, explaining how policies work and who can benefit from them (or how losers can be
compensated) is critical to fostering policy support. Simply making people more concerned
about climate change does not appear to be an effective strategy.
    Furthermore, as shown in Figure 16 and Table A18, providing information significantly
increases (by 5p.p.) the belief that a goal of net-zero emission is achievable and that hu-
mankind will succeed in halting climate change by the end of the century. This suggests that
the grim views about the future (documented in Section 3) may be driven by a lack of aware-
ness of possible solutions, which can be addressed with the type of information provided in
the videos.
    In addition, as can be seen from the weaker effects on support for policies other than
the ones covered in the videos, it is important to provide information about and explain the
workings of a specific or closely related policy. Respondents do not immediately extrapolate
one policy’s effect to another.

                Figure 15: Effects of the treatments on support for climate action

                Climate Impacts               Climate Policies        Both Treatments
               Support for Main Climate Policies
                      Ban on combustion-engine cars
                        Green infrastructure program
                      Carbon tax with cash transfers
                    Fairness of main climate policies


            Support for Other Climate Policies
Ban on combustion-engine cars w. alternatives available
                Carbon tax with progressive transfers
                                     Tax on fossil fuels
              Ban of polluting vehicles in dense areas
                  Tax on ﬂying (raising price by 20%)
                 Subsidies for low-carbon technologies
     Mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings


                                   Private Behaviors
      % of prize willing to donate to reforestation cause
             Willing to adopt climate-friendly behavior
      Willing to sign petition supporting climate action

                                                            -0.05   0.00      0.05         0.10         0.15
                                                                           Coeﬀicients


Note: The figure shows the coefficients from a regression of indicator variables and one continuous variable
listed on the left, capturing support for various policies and willingness to change behaviors on indicators
for each treatment, controlling for country fixed effects and socioeconomic characteristics (not shown). The
exception is % of prize willing to donate to reforestation cause, which is a continuous variable from 0 to 1
equal to the share of the lottery prize the respondent is willing to donate. Bars represent 95% confidence
intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.


                                                            37
                                Figure 16: Effects of the treatments on underlying beliefs
              (A) Effects of the treatments on trust, views about climate change, and knowledge
                                      Climate Impacts                    Climate Policies                  Both Treatments
                               Trust and General Perceptions
                                               Trusts the government
                      Believes inequality is an important problem


                                 Views about Climate Change
                            Worries about the consequences of CC
                            Believes net-zero is technically feasible
                           Believes will suﬀer from climate change


                                   Climate Change Knowledge
                  Understands emissions across activities/regions
                           Knows CC is real & caused by humans
                                       Knows which gases cause CC
                                         Understands impacts of CC
                                                                          -0.10                 0.00                   0.10                     0.20
                                                                                                            Coeﬀicients


            (B) Effects of the treatments on beliefs about properties of the main climate policies
                                                                         Carbon Tax w.                 Ban on Combustion-              Green Infrastructure
                                                                         Cash Transfers                   Engine Cars                       Program
38
                      Eﬀectiveness of the Climate Policy


           Believes the policy would have positive econ. eﬀects



                    Believes the policy would reduce emissions



                    Believes the policy would reduce pollution




           Distributional Impacts of the Climate Policy


                            Believes own household would lose



                       Believes low-income earners would lose



                       Believes high-income earners would lose


                                                                  -0.4   -0.2   0.0     0.2   0.4   -0.4    -0.2 0.0     0.2   0.4   -0.4   -0.2 0.0     0.2   0.4
                                                                            Coeﬀicients                       Coeﬀicients                     Coeﬀicients

     Note: The figure depicts the ‘first stage’ effects of the treatments, i.e., on beliefs about climate change and
     climate policies (we do not use the treatments as instrumental variables but it is helpful intuitively to think
     of beliefs as first-stage variables and policy views as second-stage outcomes). It shows the coefficients from
     a regression of indices listed on the left, capturing respondents’ beliefs and perceptions on indicators for
     each treatment, controlling for country fixed effects and socioeconomic characteristics (not shown). Panel
     A displays the coefficients from the regressions for reasoning, while panel B displays the coefficients from
     regressions of beliefs about the properties of each of the three policies. Bars represent 95% confidence
     intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for variable detailed definitions.
7    Conclusion
    Our new large-scale international survey of 40,000 respondents across twenty high-emitting
countries shows that a majority of people understand that climate change is real and human-
caused. However, respondents disagree about which measures should be taken to fight it.
Our paper contributes new and comprehensive data on people’s perceptions and reasoning
about climate change and climate policies across many countries. We also study which fac-
tors are most associated with policy support and what type of information is most important
to shift views on climate policies.
    We show that people’s support for a given climate policy is strongly predicted by three
fundamental beliefs, namely that the policy is helpful in reducing emissions (effectiveness); ii)
does not have adverse distributional impacts by hurting lower-income households (inequal-
ity concerns); and iii) does not financially hurt the respondents’ household (self-interest).
Stronger concerns or better knowledge about climate change are not strong predictors of
support for climate action.
    Accordingly, in many countries, there is strong majority support for policies perceived
to be effective, progressive, or both, namely green infrastructure programs, subsidies for
low-carbon technologies, carbon taxes with strongly progressive use of revenues (such as
cash transfers to the poorest or most impacted households), and policies centered around
regulations such as bans on polluting vehicles from city centers or dense areas, and the
mandatory insulation of buildings.
    These findings are confirmed experimentally. Respondents who see a video explaining
the effectiveness and distributional implications of a policy (e.g. that it will not hurt poorer
households) significantly increase their support for climate policies. Respondents who see a
video on the impacts of climate change instead do not change their views by as much, and
the effect is only significant in a few countries. The treatment effects for the three main
policies covered in the information treatments – a green infrastructure program, a ban on
combustion-engine cars, and a carbon tax with cash transfers – differ in magnitude. But for
all three policies, a significant share of the baseline opposition can be swayed by explanations
of how the policies work and who they impact. These findings relate to a larger literature
that provides information about policies and studies how it affects respondents’ views (see
among others Alesina, Ferroni and Stantcheva (2021), Stantcheva (2021), Stantcheva (2022b),
Binetti, Nuzzi and Stantcheva (2024), Stantcheva (2024)). A general lesson is that core
factors people care about – such as their own self-interest and distributional concerns–appear
commonly across a range of policies, but their importance varies.
    Left-wing and college-educated respondents, as well as those with public transport avail-
ability, low car usage, and gas expenses, are more supportive of climate action. The differ-
ences between groups that support more climate change action and those that support less
can also be traced back to the three core beliefs outlined. For instance, college-educated
respondents are generally more supportive of climate action because they believe that it will
be effective in reducing emissions and that they or lower-income households will not lose
out as much. Nevertheless, socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics alone do not explain
a large share of the variation in policy views across respondents.

                                              39
    The policy lessons emerging from these international surveys and experiments are, first,
that the specific policies proposed need to be distributionally progressive and that citizens
need to be made aware of this. A corollary is that carbon pricing can be widely supported, as
long as it is accompanied by transfers to vulnerable households and low-carbon investments.
In other words, effectiveness and progressivity can go hand in hand. Second, explanations
and information are needed to improve support for climate policies. They can be very effec-
tive in improving climate policies’ support if they address the three key concerns outlined.
Information on the dangers of climate change alone without a corresponding explanation of
the policies has only limited impacts on policy support.
    Third, people have key concerns about their own potential losses from implementing
climate action. Their own experience is predictive of their broader perceptions and beliefs
about climate change and policies. This highlights the importance of making environmentally
friendly alternatives, e.g., public transportation, more widely available before increasing
environmental taxes.
    Future research could continue shedding light on the best way to convey information on
how climate policies work. In addition, while our sample includes a substantial number of
countries, many more are missing and would be valuable to survey in an expanded analysis.
Our survey has focused on mitigation rather than adaptation policies (Barreca et al. 2016),
which would be valuable to explore in future work.




                                             40
                                                       Figure 17: Sample representativeness – High-income
                                    Australia                                             Canada                                                    Denmark                                                 France
                                                                                                                                                                                           Gender
                                                                         Gender                                                                                                               Man
                   Gender                                                    Man                                                    Gender                                                    Age
                       Man                                                   Age                                                       Man                                         18-24 years old
                       Age                                        18-24 years old                                                       Age                                        25-34 years old
             18-24 years old                                      25-34 years old                                            18-24 years old                                       35-49 years old
             25-34 years old                                      35-49 years old                                            25-34 years old                               More than 50 years old
             35-49 years old                              More than 50 years old                                             35-49 years old                                               Income
    More than 50 years old                                               Income                                      More than 50 years old                                             Income Q1
                    Income                                            Income Q1                                                     Income                                              Income Q2
                 Income Q1                                            Income Q2                                                  Income Q1                                              Income Q3
                 Income Q2                                            Income Q3                                                  Income Q2                                              Income Q4
                 Income Q3                                            Income Q4                                                  Income Q3                                               Location
                 Income Q4                                             Location                                                  Income Q4                                           Île de France
                  Location                                                Central                                                 Location                                                Nord-Est
New South Wales and ACT                                                      East                                              Hovedstaden                                             Nord-Ouest
                Queensland                                            North West                                                Midtjylland                                                Sud-Est
            South Australia                                               Ontario                                               Nordjylland                                              Sud-Ouest
    Victoria and Tasmania                                                 Quebec                                                   Sjælland                                                  Urban
             West Australia                                                Urban                                               Syddanmark                                              Education
                      Urban                                           Education                                                       Urban                              College education (25-64)
                Education                               College education (25-64)                                               Education                                           Employment
  College education (25-64)                                        Employment                                      College education (25-64)                            Unemployment rate (15-64)
             Employment                                Unemployment rate (15-64)                                              Employment                                              Ownership
Unemployment rate (15-64)                                            Ownership                                    Unemployment rate (15-64)                                  Home ownership rate
                Ownership                                   Home ownership rate                                                 Ownership                                                     Vote
      Home ownership rate                                                   Vote                                       Home ownership rate                                                  Macron
                       Vote                                   Conservative Party                                                       Vote                                                 Le Pen
 Liberal/National Coalition                                         Liberal Party                                         Socialdemokratiet                                                  Fillon
                Labor Party                               New Democratic Party                                                       Venstre                                            Mélenchon

                               -.2 -.1   0   .1   .2                                -.2 -.1    0   .1   .2                                     -.2 -.1    0   .1   .2                                 -.2 -.1   0   .1   .2

                                    Germany                                                   Italy                                                      Japan                                              Poland

                                                                         Gender                                                     Gender                                                Gender
                  Gender                                                     Man                                                       Man                                                    Man
                      Man                                                    Age                                                        Age                                                   Age
                      Age                                         18-24 years old                                            18-24 years old                                       18-24 years old
           18-24 years old                                        25-34 years old                                            25-34 years old                                       25-34 years old
           25-34 years old                                        35-49 years old                                            35-49 years old                                       35-49 years old
           35-49 years old                                More than 50 years old                                     More than 50 years old                                More than 50 years old
   More than 50 years old                                                Income                                                     Income                                                Income
                  Income                                              Income Q1                                                  Income Q1                                             Income Q1
               Income Q1                                              Income Q2                                                  Income Q2                                             Income Q2
               Income Q2                                              Income Q3                                                  Income Q3                                             Income Q3
               Income Q3                                              Income Q4                                                  Income Q4                                             Income Q4
               Income Q4                                               Location                                                   Location                                              Location
                Location                                                  Centre                                                     Chubu                                                 Central
                   Central                                                Islands                                                    Kansai                                          Central-East
                   Eastern                                            North-East                                                      Kanto                                                 North
                 Northern                                            North-West                                                       North                                            South-East
                 Southern                                                  South                                                      South                                           South-West
                  Western                                                  Urban                                                      Urban                                                 Urban
                    Urban                                            Education                                                  Education                                             Education
              Education                                 College education (25-64)                                  College education (25-64)                             College education (25-64)
 College education (25-64)                                         Employment                                                 Employment                                            Employment
            Employment                                 Unemployment rate (15-64)                                  Unemployment rate (15-64)                             Unemployment rate (15-64)
Unemployment rate (15-64)                                            Ownership                                                  Ownership                                             Ownership
              Ownership                                     Home ownership rate                                        Home ownership rate                                   Home ownership rate
     Home ownership rate                                                    Vote                                                       Vote                                                  Vote
                     Vote                                                    M5S                                   Liberal Democratic Party                                                  Duda
               CDU/CSU                                                        PD                                                       CDP                                            Trzaskowski
                     SPD                                                     Lega                                                Innovation                                              Hołownia

                               -.2 -.1   0   .1   .2                                -.2 -.1    0   .1   .2                                     -.2 -.1    0   .1   .2                                 -.2 -.1   0   .1   .2
                                                                                        P.P. diﬀerence with population




                                                                                                             41
                                South Korea                                                 Spain                                             United Kingdom                                          United States

                                                                       Gender                                                Gender
                  Gender                                                  Man                                                    Man
                      Man                                                  Age                                                   Age                                                 Gender
                      Age                                       18-24 years old                                       18-24 years old                                                   Man
           18-24 years old                                      25-34 years old                                       25-34 years old                                                    Age
           25-34 years old                                      35-49 years old                                       35-49 years old                                         18-24 years old
           35-49 years old                              More than 50 years old                                More than 50 years old                                          25-34 years old
   More than 50 years old                                              Income                                                Income                                           35-49 years old
                  Income                                            Income Q1                                              Income Q1                                  More than 50 years old
               Income Q1                                            Income Q2                                              Income Q2                                                 Income
               Income Q2                                            Income Q3                                              Income Q3                                              Income Q1
               Income Q3                                            Income Q4                                              Income Q4                                              Income Q2
               Income Q4                                             Location                                               Location                                              Income Q3
                Location                                                Center                                            Central UK                                              Income Q4
                      East                                                 East                                               London                                               Location
                    North                                                North                                     Northern England                                                  Midwest
                     Seoul                                         North-West                                           Northern UK                                                Northeast
                     West                                                South                                     Southern England                                                    South
                    Urban                                                Urban                                                 Urban                                                    West
              Education                                            Education                                              Education                                                    Urban
 College education (25-64)                            College education (25-64)                             College education (25-64)                                            Education
            Employment                                           Employment                                            Employment                                   College education (25-64)
Unemployment rate (15-64)                            Unemployment rate (15-64)                             Unemployment rate (15-64)                                           Employment
              Ownership                                            Ownership                                             Ownership                                 Unemployment rate (15-64)
     Home ownership rate                                  Home ownership rate                                   Home ownership rate                                              Ownership
                     Vote                                                 Vote                                                  Vote                                    Home ownership rate
                    Jae-In                                               PSOE                                     Conservative Party                                                    Vote
                 Joon-pyo                                                   PP                                          Labour Party                                                   Biden
                Cheol-soo                                                 VOX                                      Liberal Democrats                                                  Trump

                             -.2 -.1   0   .1   .2                                -.2 -.1    0   .1   .2                                -.2    -.1   0   .1   .2                                -.2    -.1   0   .1   .2
                                                                                      P.P. diﬀerence with population

                Note: This figure displays difference between sample characteristics and population characteristics. For
                College education (25-64), the sample statistics are provided for respondents aged between 25 and 64 years
                old. For the Vote variables, the sample statistics include the share of respondents who indicated voted for
                a party/candidate, among respondents who indicated having voted. For Unemployment rate (15-64), the
                sample statistics include the share of respondents aged between 15 and 64 years old who indicated being
                “Unemployed (searching for a job)”, (‘Unemployed (searching for a job),” “Full-time employed,” “Part-time
                employed,” or “Self-employed ”). For College education (25-64) in the U.S., the sample statistics is provided
                for all respondents and not only respondents aged between 25 and 64 years old. Detailed sources for each
                variable and country, as well as the definitions of regions, college education, urban, and voting categories
                are available in Appendix A-11. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals. Specific numbers are reported in
                Appendix Tables A1, A2, and A3.




                                                                                                           42
                                                   Figure 18: Sample representativeness – Middle-income
                                    Brazil                                                China                                                   India                                            Indonesia

                                                                                                                                                                                 Gender
                 Gender                                                                                                       Gender                                                 Man
                     Man                                                                                                          Man                                                 Age
                      Age                                                                                                          Age                                     18-24 years old
           18-24 years old                                          Gender                                              18-24 years old                                    25-34 years old
           25-34 years old                                              Man                                             25-34 years old                                    35-49 years old
           35-49 years old                                               Age                                            35-49 years old                            More than 50 years old
   More than 50 years old                                     18-24 years old                                   More than 50 years old                                            Income
                  Income                                      25-34 years old                                                  Income                                          Income Q1
               Income Q1                                      35-49 years old                                               Income Q1                                          Income Q2
               Income Q2                              More than 50 years old                                                Income Q2                                          Income Q3
               Income Q3                                             Income                                                 Income Q3                                          Income Q4
               Income Q4                                          Income Q1                                                 Income Q4                                           Location
                Location                                          Income Q2                                                  Location                                     Eastern Islands
             Central-West                                         Income Q3                                      Central Zonal Council                                       Eastern Java
                    North                                         Income Q4                                      Eastern Zonal Council                                   Northern Islands
               North-East                                          Location                                     Northern Zonal Council                                           Sumatra
                    South                                                East                                   Southern Zonal Council                                       Western Java
               South-East                                              North                                     Western Zonal Council                                              Urban
                    Urban                                          Northeast                                                     Urban                                         Education
               Education                                       South Central                                                Education                             Master or higher (25-64)
  Master or higher (25-64)                                              West                                   Master or higher (25-64)                                    Employment
           Employment                                                  Urban                                            Employment                              Unemployment rate (15-64)
Unemployment rate (15-64)                                         Education                                  Unemployment rate (15-64)                                        Ownership
              Ownership                              Master or higher (25-64)                                              Ownership                                Home ownership rate
    Home ownership rate                                       Employment                                          Home ownership rate                                                Vote
                     Vote                          Unemployment rate (15-64)                                                      Vote                                              PDI-P
                Bolsonaro                                        Ownership                                                         BJP                                     Gerindra Party
                   Haddad                              Home ownership rate                                                         INC                                             Golkar

                             -.3   -.1   .1   .3                                -.3     -.1   .1   .3                                     -.3   -.1   .1   .3                                -.3   -.1   .1    .3

                                   Mexico                                             South Africa                                              Turkey                                             Ukraine

                 Gender                                             Gender
                     Man                                                Man                                                   Gender                                             Gender
                      Age                                                Age                                                      Man                                                Man
           18-24 years old                                    18-24 years old                                                      Age                                                Age
           25-34 years old                                    25-34 years old                                           18-24 years old                                    18-24 years old
           35-49 years old                                    35-49 years old                                           25-34 years old                                    25-34 years old
   More than 50 years old                             More than 50 years old                                            35-49 years old                                    35-49 years old
                  Income                                             Income                                     More than 50 years old                             More than 50 years old
               Income Q1                                          Income Q1                                                    Income                                             Income
               Income Q2                                          Income Q2                                                 Income Q1                                          Income Q1
               Income Q3                                          Income Q3                                                 Income Q2                                          Income Q2
               Income Q4                                          Income Q4                                                 Income Q3                                          Income Q3
                Location                                           Location                                                 Income Q4                                          Income Q4
          Central-Eastern                                             Center                                                 Location                                           Location
         Central-Western                                            Gauteng                                                     Central                                            Center
               North-East                                         North-East                                                       East                                               East
                    South                                         South-East                                                  Marmara                                               South
                    Urban                                               West                                                      West                                               West
               Education                                               Urban                                                     Urban                                              Urban
  Master or higher (25-64)                                        Education                                                 Education                                          Education
           Employment                                Master or higher (25-64)                                  Master or higher (25-64)                           Master or higher (25-64)
Unemployment rate (15-64)                                     Employment                                                Employment                                         Employment
              Ownership                            Unemployment rate (15-64)                                 Unemployment rate (15-64)                          Unemployment rate (15-64)
    Home ownership rate                                          Ownership                                                 Ownership                                          Ownership
                     Vote                              Home ownership rate                                       Home ownership rate                                Home ownership rate
                MORENA                                                  Vote                                                      Vote                                               Vote
                     PAN                                                ANC                                                       AKP                                           Zelenskyy
                      PRI                                                 DA                                                      CHP                                          Poroshenko

                             -.3   -.1   .1   .3                                -.3     -.1   .1   .3                                     -.3   -.1   .1   .3                                -.3   -.1   .1    .3
                                                                                       P.P. diﬀerence with population


                Note: This figures displays difference between sample characteristics and population characteristics. For

                Master or higher (25-64) in Ukraine, the sample statistics is provided for all respondents and not only
                respondents aged between 25 and 64 years old. See notes to Figure 17. Detailed sources for each variable
                and country, as well as the definitions of regions, education, urban, and voting categories are available
                in Appendix A-11. Specific numbers are reported in Appendix Tables A4 and A5. Bars represent 95%
                confidence intervals.




                                                                                                        43
References
Alesina, Alberto, Matteo F Ferroni, and Stefanie Stantcheva (2021). Perceptions of
 racial gaps, their causes, and ways to reduce them. NBER Working Paper 29245. National
 Bureau of Economic Research.

Alsan, Marcella, Luca Braghieri, Sarah Eichmeyer, Minjeong Joyce Kim, Ste-
 fanie Stantcheva, and David Y Yang (2021). Civil Liberties in Times of Crisis.
 NBER Working Paper 27972. National Bureau of Economic Research.

Anderson, Soren T., and James M. Sallee (2016). Designing Policies to Make Cars
 Greener. Annual Review of Resource Economics, 8(1): 157–180.

Andre, Peter, Teodora Boneva, Felix Chopra, and Armin Falk (2021). Fighting
 Climate Change: The Role of Norms, Preferences, and Moral Values. CEPR Discussion
 Paper No. DP16343. Center for Economic and Policy Research.

Aubry, Thomas J, Jamie I Farquharson, Colin R Rowell, Sebastian FL Watt,
 Virginie Pinel, Frances Beckett, John Fasullo, Peter O Hopcroft, David M
 Pyle, Anja Schmidt, et al. (2022). Impact of climate change on volcanic processes:
 current understanding and future challenges. Bulletin of Volcanology, 84(6): 58.

Baranzini, Andrea, and Stefano Carattini (2017). Effectiveness, Earmarking and La-
 beling: Testing the Acceptability of Carbon Taxes with Survey Data. Environmental Eco-
 nomics and Policy Studies, 19(1): 197–227.

Barreca, Alan, Karen Clay, Olivier Deschenes, Michael Greenstone, and
 Joseph S. Shapiro (2016). Adapting to Climate Change: The Remarkable Decline
 in the US Temperature-Mortality Relationship over the Twentieth Century. Journal of
 Political Economy, 124(1): 105–159.

Benjamini, Yoav, and Yosef Hochberg (1995). Controlling the False Discovery Rate:
 A Practical and Powerful Approach to Multiple Testing. Journal of the Royal Statistical
 Society: Series B (Methodological), 57(1): 289–300.

Bergquist, Parrish, Matto Mildenberger, and Leah C. Stokes (2020). Combining
 Climate, Economic, and Social Policy Builds Public Support for Climate action in the US.
 Environmental Research Letters, 15(5): 054019.

Bernard, René, Panagiota Tzamourani, and Michael Weber (2022). Climate
 Change and Individual Behavior. Deutsche Bundesbank Discussion Paper No. 01/2022.
 Deutsche Bundesbank.

Binetti, Alberto, Francesco Nuzzi, and Stefanie Stantcheva (2024). People’s Un-
  derstanding of Inflation. NBER Working Paper 32497. National Bureau of Economic Re-
  search.

                                           44
Bolsen, Toby, Thomas J Leeper, and Matthew A Shapiro (2014). Doing What
 Others Do: Norms, Science, and Collective Action on Global Warming. American Politics
 Research, 42(1): 65–89.

Boon-Falleur, Mélusine, Aurore Grandin, Nicolas Baumard, and Coralie Cheval-
 lier (2022). Leveraging social cognition to promote effective climate change mitigation.
 Nature Climate Change, 1–7. Publisher: Nature Publishing Group.

Brannlund, Runar, and Lars Persson (2012). To tax, or not to tax: Preferences for
 Climate Policy Attributes. Climate Policy, 12(6): 704–721.

Carattini, Stefano, Andrea Baranzini, Philippe Thalmann, Frédéric Varone, and
 Frank Vöhringer (2017). Green Taxes in a Post-Paris World: Are Millions of Nays
 Inevitable? Environmental and Resource Economics, 68(1): 97–128.

Carattini, Stefano, Maria Carvalho, and Sam Fankhauser (2018). Overcoming Pub-
 lic Resistance to Carbon Taxes. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change, 9(5).

Carattini, Stefano, Simon Levin, and Alessandro Tavoni (2019). Cooperation in
 the Climate Commons. Review of Environmental Economics and Policy, 13(2): 227–247.

Carleton, Tamma, Amir Jina, Michael Delgado, Michael Greenstone, Trevor
 Houser, Solomon Hsiang, Andrew Hultgren, Robert E Kopp, Kelly E Mc-
 Cusker, Ishan Nath, James Rising, Ashwin Rode, Hee Kwon Seo, Arvid Vi-
 aene, Jiacan Yuan, and Alice Tianbo Zhang (2022). Valuing the Global Mortality
 Consequences of Climate Change Accounting for Adaptation Costs and Benefits*. The
 Quarterly Journal of Economics, forthcoming.

Chen, C, I Noble, J Hellmann, J Coffee, M Murillo, and N Chawla (2015).
 University of Notre Dame Global Adaptation Index. University of Notre Dame.

Climate Action Tracker (2021). Warming Projections Global Update.

D’Acunto, Francesco, Sascha Möhrle, Florian Neumeier, Andreas Peichl, and
 Michael Weber (2022). How to Finance Climate Change Policies? Evidence from
 Consumers’ Beliefs. CESifo Working Paper No. 9727. Center for Economic Studies.

Davis, Lucas W. (2008). The Effect of Driving Restrictions on Air Quality in Mexico
 City. Journal of Political Economy, 116(1): 38–81.

Douenne, Thomas, and Adrien Fabre (2022). Yellow Vests, Pessimistic Beliefs, and
 Carbon Tax Aversion. American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 14(1): 81–110.

Drews, Stefan, and Jeroen C.J.M. van den Bergh (2016). What explains Public
 Support for Climate Policies? A Review of Empirical and Experimental Studies. Climate
 Policy, 16(7): 855–876.


                                           45
EC (2019). Communication from the European Commissions: The European Green Deal.
 EC.

EC (2020). Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Euro-
 pean Council, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Com-
 mittee of the Regions Europe’s moment: Repair and Prepare for the Next Generation.
 EC.

Fehr, Ernst, Thomas Epper, and Julien Senn (2020). Other-Regarding Preferences
  and Redistributive Politics. University of Zurich Working Paper, , (339).

Funk, Patricia (2016). How Accurate Are Surveyed Preferences for Public Policies?
  Evidence from a Unique Institutional Setup. The Review of Economics and Statistics,
  98(3): 442–454.

Gerber, P.J., H. Steinfeld, B. Henderson, A. Mottet, C. Opio, J. Dijkman, A.
 Falcucci, and G. Tempio (2013). Tackling Climate Change through Livestock – A
 Global Assessment of Emissions and Mitigation Opportunities. Food and Agriculture Or-
 ganization of the United Nations (FAO).

Green, Jessica F. (2021). Does Carbon Pricing Reduce Emissions? A Review of ex-post
 Analyses. Environmental Research Letters, 16(4).

Grömping, Ulrike (2007). Estimators of Relative Importance in Linear Regression Based
 on Variance Decomposition. The American Statistician, 61(2): 139–147.

Haaland, Ingar, Christopher Roth, and Johannes Wohlfart (2020). Designing In-
 formation Provision Experiments. CESifo Working Paper No. 8406. Center for Economic
 Studies.

Hainmueller, Jens, Dominik Hangartner, and Teppei Yamamoto (2015). Validat-
 ing vignette and conjoint survey experiments against real-world behavior. Proceedings of
 the National Academy of Sciences.

Hepburn, Cameron, Brian O’Callaghan, Nicholas Stern, Joseph Stiglitz, and
 Zenghelis Dimitri (2020). Will COVID-19 Fiscal Recovery Packages Accelerate or Re-
 tard Progress on Climate Change? Oxford Review of Economic Policy, 36(1): S359–S381.

High Level Commission on Carbon Prices (2017). Report of the High Level Commis-
 sion on Carbon Prices.

IEA (2022). World Energy Outlook. International Energy Agency, Paris.

IPCC (2022). Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. Contribution
  of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on
  Climate Change.


                                           46
IPCC, AR6 (2021). Summary for Policymakers. In Climate Change 2021: The Physical
  Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the
  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

Ipsos, EDF (2020). Obs’COP – Climate Change and Public Opinion.

Johnston, Robert J., Kevin J. Boyle, Wiktor (Vic) Adamowicz, Jeff Bennett,
  Roy Brouwer, Trudy Ann Cameron, W. Michael Hanemann, Nick Hanley,
  Mandy Ryan, Riccardo Scarpa, Roger Tourangeau, and Christian A. Vossler
  (2017). Contemporary Guidance for Stated Preference Studies. Journal of the Association
  of Environmental and Resource Economists, 4(2): 319–405.

JRC, European Commission (2018). Fossil CO2 emissions of all world countries: 2018
 report. LU:Publications Office.

Kahan, Dan M. (2015). Climate-Science Communication and the Measurement Problem.
 Political Psychology, 36(S1): 1–43.

Klenert, David, Linus Mattauch, Emmanuel Combet, Ottmar Edenhofer,
 Cameron Hepburn, Ryan Rafaty, and Nicholas Stern (2018). Making carbon
 pricing work for citizens. Nature Climate Change, 8(8): 669–677. Publisher: Nature Pub-
 lishing Group.

Labandeira, Xavier, José M. Labeaga, and Xiral López-Otero (2017). A Meta-
  Analysis on the Price Elasticity of Energy Demand. Energy Policy, 102: 549–568. 00243.

Leiserowitz, Anthony (2006). Climate Change Risk Perception and Policy Preferences:
  The Role of Affect, Imagery, and Values. Climatic Change, 77(1): 45–72.

Leiserowitz, Anthony, Jennifer Carman, Nicole Buttermore, Xinran Wang, Seth
  Rosenthal, Jennifer Marlon, and Kelsey Mulcahy (2021). International Public
  Opinion on Climate Change. Yale Program on Climate Change Communication and Face-
  book Data for Good., New Haven, CT.

Lindeman, Richard Harold, Peter Francis Merenda, and Ruth Z Gold (1980).
  Introduction to bivariate and multivariate analysis. Glenview, Ill.:Scott, Foresman. OCLC:
  5310754.

Maestre-Andrés, Sara, Stefan Drews, and Jeroen van den Bergh (2019). Perceived
 fairness and public acceptability of carbon pricing: a review of the literature. Climate
 Policy, 19(9): 1186–1204. Publisher: Taylor & Francis.

Marron, Donald B., and Elaine Maag (2018). How to Design Carbon Dividends. Tax
 Policy Center: Urban Institute and Brookings Institution.




                                            47
Mildenberger, Matto, and Dustin Tingley (2019). Beliefs about Climate Beliefs: The
 Importance of Second-Order Opinions for Climate Politics. British Journal of Political
 Science, 49(4): 1279–1307.
Mildenberger, Matto, Erick Lachapelle, Kathryn Harrison, and Isabelle
 Stadelmann-Steffen (2022). Limited impacts of carbon tax rebate programmes on pub-
 lic support for carbon pricing. Nature Climate Change, 1–7.
NPUC (2021). Race to Net Zero: Carbon Neutral Goals by Country.
Sommer, Stephan, Linus Mattauch, and Michael Pahle (2022). Supporting Carbon
  Taxes: The Role of Fairness. Ecological Economics, 195: 107359.
Stantcheva, Stefanie (2021). Understanding Tax Policy: How do People Reason? The
  Quarterly Journal of Economics, 136(4): 2309–2369.
Stantcheva, Stefanie (2022a). How to Run Surveys: A guide to creating your own iden-
  tifying variation and revealing the invisible. NBER Working Paper No. 30527. National
  Bureau of Economic Research.
Stantcheva, Stefanie (2022b). Understanding of Trade. NBER Working Paper 30040.
  National Bureau of Economic Research.
Stantcheva, Stefanie (2024). Why do we dislike inflation? Spring 2024 Brookings Papers
  on Economic Activity (BPEA) issue.
Stiglitz, Joseph E, Nicholas Stern, Maosheng Duan, Ottmar Edenhofer, Gaël
  Giraud, Geoffrey M Heal, Emilio Lèbre La Rovere, Adele Morris, Elisabeth
  Moyer, Mari Pangestu, and others (2017). Report of the high-level commission on
  carbon prices.
Stokes, Bruce, Richard Wike, and Jill Carle (2015). Global Concern about Climate
  Change, Broad Support for Limiting Emissions.
Sunstein, Cass R, Sebastian Bobadilla-Suarez, Stephanie C Lazzaro, and Tali
  Sharot (2017). How People Update Beliefs about Climate Change: Good News and Bad
  News. Cornell Law Review, 102: 14.
Sælen, Håkon, and Steffen Kallbekken (2011). A choice experiment on fuel taxation
 and earmarking in Norway. Ecological Economics, 70(11): 2181–2190.
Tannenbaum, David, Alain Cohn, Christian Lukas Zund, and Michel André
  Maréchal (2020). What Do Cross-Country Surveys Tell us About Social Capital? CE-
  Sifo Working Paper, , (8418).
Tarduno, Matthew (2020). What Drives Support for Inefficient Environmental Policies?
  Evidence from a Nevada Ballot Initiative. Berkeley Law, Economics, and Politics Center
  Working Paper.

                                          48
Thalmann, Philippe (2004). The Public Acceptance of Green Taxes: 2 Million Voters
 Express Their Opinion. Public Choice, 119(1/2): 179–217.

Umit, Resul, and Lena Maria Schaffer (2020). Attitudes towards carbon taxes across
 Europe: The role of perceived uncertainty and self-interest. Energy Policy, 140: 111385.
 Publisher: Elsevier.

UNDP, Oxford University (2021). The Peoples’ Climate Vote.

US Congress (2021). Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

Whitmarsh, Lorraine, and Stuart Capstick (2018). Perceptions of Climate Change.
 In Psychology and Climate Change. , ed. Susan Clayton and Christie Manning, 13–33.
 Academic Press.

Wolff, Hendrik (2014). Keep Your Clunker in the Suburb: Low-Emission Zones and
 Adoption of Green Vehicles. The Economic Journal, 124(578): F481–F512.




                                           49
                 Online Appendix for
   “Fighting Climate Change: International Attitudes
               Toward Climate Policies”
List of Figures                                                                              2

List of Tables                                                                               3

A-1 Variable Definition                                                                      5

A-2 Data collection and survey information                                                  16
  A-2.1 Data collection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
  A-2.2 Data quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16

A-3 Additional figures                                                                      18

A-4 Additional tables                                                                       45

A-5 Country appendices                                                                      62

A-6 Questionnaire                                                                           62

A-7 U.S. Robustness Survey Questionnaire                                                    87

A-8 U.S. Robustness Survey Results                                                          98

A-9 Robustness checks                                                                      104
  A-9.1 Treatment effects among attentive respondents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
  A-9.2 Main results on different samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
  A-9.3 Attrition analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110

A-10 Open-ended fields                                                                      114

A-11 Data sources                                                                         118
  A-11.1 References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
       A-11.1.1 Computations of the country-specific cash transfers . . . . . . . . . 118
  A-11.2 Quotas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
       A-11.2.1 Detailed Regional Brackets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
       A-11.2.2 Detailled urban-rural categories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
       A-11.2.3 Detailed education brackets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126
       A-11.2.4 Detailed voting categories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
  A-11.3 Correct answers to knowledge questions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133




                                              1
List of Figures
  1   Share of respondents who agree (somewhat to strongly) that “Climate change
      is an important problem” or that their country “should take measures to fight
      climate change” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
  2   Conceptual Framework: Factors Shaping Views on Climate Policy . . . . . .             4
  3   The 20 countries covered in the survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
  4   Do Survey Responses Reflect Actual Behaviors? Correlation between self-
      reported support and actual behaviors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  5   Survey outline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  6   Knowledge about climate change across countries: Share of correct answers . 15
  7   Who has better knowledge about climate change? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
  8   Share of respondents willing to adopt climate-friendly behaviors . . . . . . . 19
  9   Share of respondents who support climate change policies (somewhat to strongly) 22
  10 Which respondents support climate action? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
  11 Perceived characteristics of the main policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
  12 How different groups perceive the effectiveness and distributional effects of
      the three main climate policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
  13 Beliefs underlying support for the main climate policies . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
  14 Select Screenshots from the pedagogical videos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
  15 Effects of the treatments on support for climate action . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
  16 Effects of the treatments on underlying beliefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
  17 Sample representativeness – High-income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
  18 Sample representativeness – Middle-income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
  A1 Distribution of duration of responses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
  A2 Correlation between perceptions and reality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
  A3 Do Survey Responses Reflect Actual Behaviors? Correlation between self-
      reported support and actual behaviors with pre-registered variable . . . . . 20
  A4 Expectations about the future . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
  A5 Share of non-indifferent respondents who support policies (somewhat or strongly) 22
  A6 Support for variants of the ban on combustion-engine cars . . . . . . . . . . 23
  A7 Share of respondents who find the following sources of funding appropriate
      for public investments in green infrastructure? (Multiple answers possible) . 24
  A8 Support for main climate policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
  A9 Share who support the main climate policies by socioeconomic, energy usage
      characteristics, and treatment group in high-income countries . . . . . . . . . 26
  A10 Share who support the main climate policies by socioeconomic, energy usage
      characteristics, and treatment group in middle-income countries . . . . . . . 27
  A11 Correlation between indifference towards the main climate policies and so-
      cioeconomic and energy usage characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
  A12 Correlation between support for the other climate policies and socioeconomic
      and energy usage characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
  A13 Perceived characteristics of a ban on combustion-engine cars . . . . . . . . . 30

                                             2
  A14 Perceived characteristics of a carbon tax with cash transfers . . . . . . . . . 31
  A15 Perceived characteristics of a green infrastructure program . . . . . . . . . . 32
  A16 Share of respondents who hold key beliefs about the main climate policies
      by socioeconomic characteristics, energy usage, and treatment group in high-
      income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
  A17 Share of respondents who hold key beliefs about the main climate policies by
      socioeconomic characteristics, energy usage, and treatment group in middle-
      income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
  A18 Beliefs underlying policy support, views on fairness, and willingness to change
      behaviors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
  A19 Climate attitudes by treatment group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
  A20 Effects of the treatments on the support for a carbon tax depending on the
      use of its revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
  A21 Reverse IV – All Sample . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
  A22 Reverse IV – By country . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
  A23 Absolute support for global climate policies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
  A24 Relative support for global climate policies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
  A25 Sample representativeness – Robustness Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
  A26 Sentiment analysis: occurrence of broad categories in open-ended fields (in %). 116
  A27 Topic analysis: occurrence of specific categories in open-ended fields (in %). . 116
  A28 Keyword analysis: occurrence of specific keywords in open-ended fields (in %). 117

List of Tables
  A1  Sample representativeness – High-income countries 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . .           45
  A2  Sample representativeness – High-income countries 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . .           46
  A3  Sample representativeness – High-income countries 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . .           47
  A4  Sample representativeness – Middle-income countries 1 . . . . . . . . . . . .           48
  A5  Sample representativeness – Middle-income countries 2 . . . . . . . . . . . .           49
  A6  Correlation between knowledge and individual characteristics . . . . . . . . .          50
  A7  Correlation between Knowledge index and individual characteristics in high-
      income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      51
  A8 Correlation between Knowledge index and individual characteristics in middle-
      income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      52
  A9 Correlation between support for the main climate policies and individual char-
      acteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
  A10 Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
      characteristics in high-income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      54
  A11 Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
      characteristics in middle-income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        55
  A12 Correlation between support for the three main climate policies and beliefs .           56



                                              3
A13 Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and beliefs in
    high-income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
A14 Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and beliefs in
    middle-income countries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
A15 Effects of the treatments on support for climate action . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
A16 Effects of the treatments on main outcomes – High-income countries . . . . . 59
A17 Effects of the treatments on main outcomes – Middle-income countries . . . 60
A18 Effects of the treatments on expectations about the future . . . . . . . . . . 61
A19 Comparison of respondent profiles based on survey payment levels . . . . . . 99
A20 Effects of receiving extra-incentives to answer the survey on support for the
    three main climate policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
A21 Effects of incentivizing correct responses on knowledge and policy perceptions 101
A22 Correlation between support and beliefs by incentives receipt . . . . . . . . . 102
A23 Comparison between results of our survey and original surveys (in %). . . . . 103
A24 Social desirability bias measured with list experiment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
A25 Effects of the treatments on support for climate action, among respondents
    who respond correctly to at least one of the comprehension questions . . . . 104
A26 Correlation between knowledge and individual characteristics on the extended
    sample . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
A27 Correlation between support for the main climate policies and individual char-
    acteristics on the extended sample . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
A28 Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
    characteristics in high-income countries on the extended sample . . . . . . . 108
A29 Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
    characteristics in middle-income countries on the extended sample . . . . . . 109
A30 Correlation between knowledge or support for the main climate policies and
    beliefs on the extended sample . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
A31 Effects of the treatments on support for climate action on the extended sample111
A32 Attrition analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
A33 Balance analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113




                                           4
A-1       Variable Definition
Indices

    The summary indices that aggregate information over the same domain are constructed
following the methodology in Kling, Liebman and Katz (2007). Each index consists of an
equally weighted average of the z-scores of its components with signs oriented consistently
within domain (e.g., the higher the Knowledge index, the higher the belief of the climate
knowledge of the respondent). Variables are transformed into z-scores by subtracting the
control group mean and dividing by the control group standard deviation, so that each
z-score has mean 0 and standard deviation 1 for the control group. To further ease inter-
pretation, the resulting index is itself standardized by subtracting the mean and dividing by
the standard deviation, so that each index has mean zero and standard deviation one.


Set A: Socioeconomic characteristics (indicator variables)
Woman: respondent is a woman.
Other: respondent’s gender is neither a woman nor a man.
Lives with child(ren) under 14: respondent lives with at least one child below 14 (or has at
least one child, for the U.S.) .
Age 18-24: respondent’s age is between 18 and 24 years (usually omitted category in the
regressions).
Age 25-34: respondent’s age is between 25 and 34 years.
Age 35-49: respondent’s age is between 35 and 49 years.
Age 50+: respondent’s age is more than 50 years old.
Income Q1: respondent’s household income (before withholding tax) is in the first quartile
of her country distribution (usually omitted category in the regressions).
Income Q2: respondent’s household income (before withholding tax) is between the first and
second quartiles of her country distribution.
Income Q3: respondent’s household income (before withholding tax) is between the second
and third quartiles of her country distribution.
Income Q4: respondent’s household income (before withholding tax) is above the third
quartile of her country distribution.
Has little to no schooling: respondent received no schooling or highest level achieved is
primary or lower secondary education (usually the omitted category for the regressions).
Has vocational or high-school degree: respondent’s highest degree is either a vocational or a
high-school degree and has at least achieved primary or lower secondary education.
Has a college degree: respondent has at least a college degree.
Very Left leaning respondent’s economic policy leaning is very left.
Left leaning: respondent’s economic policy leaning is either left (usually omitted category in
the regressions).
Center leaning: respondent’s economic policy leaning is center.
Right leaning: respondent’s economic policy leaning is right.

                                              5
Very Right leaning: respondent’s economic policy leaning is very right.
Treatment: None: respondent was randomized to see no information treatment, i.e., the
control group (usually omitted category in the regressions).
Treatment: Climate impacts: respondent was randomized to see the information treatment
focused on the effects of climate change.
Treatment: Climate policies: respondent was randomized to see the information treatment
focused on the climate policies.
Treatment: Both: respondent was randomized to see the information treatment focused on
both climate policies and the effects of climate change.

Set B: Energy usage and lifestyle characteristics (indicator variables)
Rural area: respondent lives in a rural area, i.e., a town of less than 5,000 inhabitants (for
China in a town of less than 10,000 inhabitants, for Denmark in a town of less than 1,000
inhabitants).
Small agglomeration: respondent indicates living in a town between 5,000 and 10,000 inhab-
itants (for China in a town between 10,000 and 100,000 inhabitants, for Denmark in a town
between 1,000 and 20,000 inhabitants).
Medium agglomeration: respondent indicates living in an agglomeration between 50,000 and
250,000 inhabitants (for China in an agglomeration between 100,000 and 1,000,000 inhabi-
tants, for Denmark in an agglomeration between 20,000 and 100,000 inhabitants) .
Large agglomeration: respondent lives in an agglomeration of more than 500,000 inhabitants
(for China more than 1,000,000 inhabitants, for Denmark in an agglomeration of more than
100,000 inhabitants).
Public transport available: respondent indicates that the availability of public transport are
“very poor” or “poor” where she lives.
Uses car: respondent indicates she uses a car or a motorbike for at least one activity (work,
leisure, or shopping).
High gas expenses: respondent’s monthly gas expenses are above the median expenses of the
respondent’s income quartile in her country.
High heating expenses: respondent’s yearly heating or cooling expenses are above the median
expenses of the respondent’s income quartile in her country.
Flies more than once a year: respondent takes on average more than one round-trip flight
per year.
Polluting Sector: respondent’s economic works in a polluting sector.
Eats beef/meat weekly or more: respondent indicates eating beef (meat in India) weekly or
daily.
Owner or landlord: respondent is a homeowner or a landlord renting out property.

Set C: Reasoning and perceptions of climate change and policies (index variables)
Trusts the government: index based on the following variable:

   • Trust govt: respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the
     following statement: ‘Over the last decade the [Country] government could generally be


                                              6
     trusted to do what is right.,’” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,”
     0 is “Neither agree nor disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.”
Believes inequality is an important problem: index based on the following variable:
   • Ineq. problem: respondent’s answer to the question: “How big of an issue do you think
     income inequality is in [Country]?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Not an issue
     at all,” 0 is “An issue,” and 2 is “A very serious issue.”
Worries about the consequences of CC: index based on the following variables:
   • Respondent’s answers to the questions “If nothing is done to limit climate change,
     how likely do you think it is that climate change will lead to [consequences]” coded
     on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Very unlikely,” there is no 0, and 2 is “Very likely.”
     Where [consequence] is larger immigration flows, more armed conflicts, the extinction
     of humankind, or drop in standards of livings

   • Climate change problem: respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or dis-
     agree with the following statement: ‘Climate change is an important problem.’” coded
     on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor disagree,”
     and 2 is “Strongly agree.”

   • Environmentalist: respondent is a member of an environmental organization.
Believe net-zero is technically feasible: index based on the following variable:
   • Net-zero technically feasible: respondent’s answer to the question: “To what extent do
     you think that it is technically feasible to stop greenhouse gas emissions by the end of the
     century while [maintaining / sustaining] satisfactory standards of living in [country]?”
     coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Not at all,” 0 is “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great
     deal.”
Believe will suffer from climate change: index based on the following variable:
   • Suffers from CC: respondent’s answer to the question: “To what extent do you think
     climate change already affects or will affect your personal life negatively?” coded on a
     -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Not at all,” 0 is “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great deal.”
Understands emissions across activities/regions: index based on the following variables:
   • Score footprint transport: respondent’s Kendall distance with true ranking on knowl-
     edge questions about transport emissions.

   • Score footprint electricity: respondent’s Kendall distance with true ranking on knowl-
     edge questions about electricity production emissions.

   • Score footprint food: respondent’s Kendall distance with true ranking on knowledge
     questions about food emissions.

                                               7
   • Score footprint countries per capita: respondent’s Kendall distance with true ranking
     on knowledge questions about countries’ emissions per capita.
   • Score footprint countries per region: respondent’s Kendall distance with true ranking
     on knowledge questions about total regions’ emissions.
Knows climate change real: index based on the following variables:
   • Climate change real: respondent indicates that climate change is real.
   • Cutting emissions by half insufficient to stop global warming: indicator variable equal
     to 1 if the respondent thinks that cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by half would
     not be sufficient to eventually stop temperatures from rising.
   • Climate change exists, is anthropogenic: respondent indicates that “A lot” or “Most”
     of climate change is due to human activity.
Knows which gases cause CC: index based on the following variables:
   • Methane is a greenhouse gas: respondent indicates that methane is a GHG.
   • CO2 is a greenhouse gas: respondent indicates that CO2 is a GHG.
   • H2 is not a greenhouse gas: respondent indicates that H2 is not a GHG.
   • Particulates are not a greenhouse gas: respondent indicates that particulates are not
     a GHG.
Understands impacts of CC: index based on the following variables:
   • Severe droughts and heatwaves are likely: respondent indicates that it is “Somewhat
     likely” or “Very likely” that climate change will lead to severe droughts and heatwaves.
   • Sea-level rise is likely: respondent indicates that it is “Somewhat likely” or “Very
     likely” that climate change will lead to rising sea levels.
   • More frequent volcanic eruptions are unlikely: respondent indicates that it is “Some-
     what unlikely” or “Very unlikely” that climate change will lead to more frequent vol-
     canic eruptions.
   For each [policy] = a ban on combustion-engine cars; a green infrastructure program; or
a carbon tax with cash transfers, we define the following indices:

Believes [policy] would have positive econ. effect: index based on the following variable:
   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? [Policy] would have a positive effect on the [Country] economy and em-
     ployment” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree
     nor disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals
     1 if the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”

                                              8
Believes [policy] would reduce pollution: index based on the following variable:

   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? [Policy] would reduce air pollution” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2
     is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.”
     When defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if the respondent “somewhat agrees”
     or “strongly agrees.”

Believes the policy would reduce emissions – Ban on combustion-engine cars: index based
on the following variable:

   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? A ban on combustion-engine cars would reduce CO2 emissions from cars”
     coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor
     disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if
     the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”

Believes the policy would reduce emissions – Green infrastructure program: index based on
the following variables:

   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? A green infrastructure program would make electricity production greener”
     coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor
     disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if
     the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”

   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? A green infrastructure program would increase the use of public transport”
     coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor
     disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if
     the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”

Believes the policy would reduce emissions – Carbon tax with cash transfers: index based on
the following variables:

   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? A carbon tax with cash transfers would reduce the use of fossil fuels and
     GHG emissions” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither
     agree nor disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator variable,
     equals 1 if the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”

   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following
     statements? A carbon tax with cash transfers would encourage people to drive less”
     coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor
     disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if
     the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”

                                              9
   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree with the following state-
     ments? A carbon tax with cash transfers would reduce encoure people and companies
     to insulate buildings” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Strongly disagree,” 0 is
     “Neither agree nor disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” When defined as an indicator
     variable, equals 1 if the respondent “somewhat agrees” or “strongly agrees.”
Believes own household would lose from [policy]: index based on the following variable:
   • respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you think that your household would win or
     lose financially from [policy]?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Lose a lot,” 0 is
     “Neither win nor lose,” and 2 is “Win a lot.” When defined as an indicator variable,
     equals 1 if the respondent answers “mostly win” or “ win a lot.”
Believes low-income earners will lose from [policy]: index based on the following variable:
   • respondent’s answer to the question: “In your view, would the low-income earners win
     or lose if [policy] was implemented in [Country]?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2
     is “Lose a lot,” 0 is “Neither win nor lose,” and 2 is “Win a lot.” When defined as an
     indicator variable, equals 1 if the respondent answers “mostly win” or “ win a lot.”
Believes high-income earners will lose from [policy]: index based on the following variables:
   • respondent’s answer to the question: “In your view, would the high-income earners win
     or lose if a ban on combustion-engine cars was implemented in [Country]?” coded on
     a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Lose a lot,” 0 is “Neither win nor lose,” and 2 is “Win a
     lot.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if the respondent answers “mostly
     win” or “ win a lot.”
Set Cbis: Reasoning and perceptions of climate change and policies (indices
based on the variables of other indices)

We use the underlying variables of some indices of Set C to construct the indices of Set
Cbis (using the same methodology to construct indices).

Believes policies would have positive econ. effects: index based on the following variables:
   • Econ. effects halting CC: respondent’s answer to the question: “If we decide to halt
     climate change through ambitious policies, what would be the effects on the [Country]
     economy and employment?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Very negative effects,”
     0 is “No noticeable effects,” and 2 is “Very positive effects.”

   • The underlying variables of the three Believes [policy] would have positive econ. effect
     indices.
Believes policies would reduce pollution: index based on the following variable:
   • The underlying variables of the three Believes [policy] would reduce pollution: indices.

                                             10
Believes policies would reduce emissions: index based on the underlying variables of the
following indices:

   • Believes the policy would reduce emissions – Ban on combustion-engine cars: index
     based on the following variable

   • Believes the policy would reduce emissions – Green infrastructure program: index based
     on the following variable

   • Believes the policy would reduce emissions – Carbon tax with cash transfers: index
     based on the following variable

Believes will personally lose: index based on the following variable:

   • The underlying variables of the three Believes own household would lose from [policy]
     indices.

Believes poor people will lose: index based on the following variable:

   • The underlying variables of the three Believes low-income earners will lose from [policy]
     indices.

Believes rich people will lose: index based on the following variable:

   • The underlying variables of the three Believes high-income earners will lose from [pol-
     icy] indices.

Set D: Outcomes
Distributional Impacts – The middle class (Green infrastructure/Carbon tax w. transfers/Ban
on combustion-engine cars): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent considers that
the middle class would “mostly win” or “ win a lot” from a green infrastructure program/a
carbon tax with cash transfers/a ban on combustion-engine cars.
Distributional Impacts – Those living in rural areas (Green infrastructure/Carbon tax w.
transfers/Ban on combustion-engine cars): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
considers that those living in rural areas would “mostly win” or “ win a lot” from a green
infrastructure program/a carbon tax with cash transfers/a ban on combustion-engine cars.
Effects – Costless way to fight climate change (Green infrastructure/Carbon tax w. trans-
fers/Ban on combustion-engine cars): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent “some-
what agrees” or “ strongly agrees” that a green infrastructure program/a carbon tax with
cash transfers/a ban on combustion-engine cars would be a costless way to fight climate
change.
Factors – Ambitious climate policies: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent indicates
that it is “a lot” or “a great deal ” important for them to adopt a sustainable life (i.e. limit
driving, flying, and consumption, bike more, etc.) to have ambitious climate policies.
Factors – Having enough financial support: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
indicates that it is “a lot” or “a great deal ” important for them to adopt a sustainable life

                                              11
(i.e. limit driving, flying, and consumption, bike more, etc.) that they have enough financial
support.
Factors – People around you also changing their behavior: indicator variable equal to 1 if
the respondent indicates that it is “a lot” or “a great deal ” important for them to adopt a
sustainable life (i.e. limit driving, flying, and consumption, bike more, etc.) that the people
around them also change their behavior.
Factors – The most well off also changing their behavior: indicator variable equal to 1 if
the respondent indicates that it is “a lot” or “a great deal ” important for them to adopt a
sustainable life (i.e. limit driving, flying, and consumption, bike more, etc.) that the most
well-off also change their behavior.
Fairness of main climate policies: index based on the following variables. When defined as
an indicator variable, equals 1 if the numerical mean of those variables is greater than or
equal to 1.
   • [Policy] fairness: respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you agree or disagree
     with the following statement: ‘[Policy] is fair.’” Coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is
     “Strongly disagree,” 0 is “Neither agree nor disagree,” and 2 is “Strongly agree.” Where
     [Policy] is a ban on combustion-engine cars, a green infrastructure program, or a carbon
     tax with cash transfers.’
GHG footprint of beef/meat is higher than chicken or pasta: indicator variable equal to 1
if the respondent considers that a beef steak (or lamb chop in India) of 200g emits more
greenhouse gases than 200g of a serving of pasta or chicken wings.
GHG footprint of nuclear is lower than gas or coal: indicator variable equal to 1 if the
respondent considers that a nuclear power plant emits less greenhouse gases to provide elec-
tricity for a house than a gas-fired power plant or a coal-fired power station.
GHG footprint of plane is higher than car or train/bus: indicator variable equal to 1 if the
respondent considers that for a trip of 700 km family of four emits more greenhouse gases
travelling by plane than by travelling by car or a train/bus.
Knowledge index : index based on the variables used for the Understands emissions across
activities/regions, Knows climate change real, Knows which gases cause CC, and Under-
stands impacts of CC indices listed above.
Indifferent – All main climate policies: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent “neither
supports nor opposes” a ban on combustion-engine cars, a carbon tax with cash transfers,
and a green infrastructure program.
Indifferent – Ban on combustion-engine cars: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“neither supports nor opposse” a ban on combustion-engine cars.
Support – Carbon tax with cash transfers: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“neither supports nor opposes” a carbon tax with cash transfers.
Indifferent – Green infrastructure program: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“neither supports nor opposes” a green infrastructure program.
Per capita emissions of the U.S. are higher than other regions: indicator variable equal to 1
if the respondent considers that the consumption of an average person in the U.S. contributes
more to global greenhouse gas emissions than the consumption of an average person in the

                                               12
European Union, China, or India.
Perceived Fairness and Support – Support (Green infrastructure/Carbon tax w. transfers/Ban
on combustion-engine cars): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent “somewhat sup-
ports” or “ strongly supports” a green infrastructure program/a carbon tax with cash trans-
fers/a ban on combustion-engine cars.
Perceived Fairness and Support – Is fair (Green infrastructure/Carbon tax w. transfers/Ban
on combustion-engine cars): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent “somewhat
agrees” or “ strongly agrees” that a green infrastructure program/a carbon tax with cash
transfers/a ban on combustion-engine cars is fair.
Support – A high tax on cattle products, doubling beef prices: indicator variable equal to 1 if
the respondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a high tax on cattle products,
so that the price of beef doubles.
Support – Ban of intensive cattle farming: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” the ban of intensive cattle farming.
Support – Ban of polluting vehicles in dense areas: indicator variable equal to 1 if the re-
spondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a ban of polluting vehicles in dense
areas, like city centers.
Support – Ban on combustion-engine cars: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a ban on combustion-engine cars.
Support – Ban on combustion-engine cars w. alternatives available: indicator variable equal
to 1 if the respondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a ban on combustion-
engine cars where alternatives such as public transports are made available to people.
Support – Carbon tax with cash transfers: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax with cash transfers.
Support – Cash transfers to the constrained households: indicator variable equal to 1 if the
respondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gaso-
line prices by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance cash transfers
to households with no alternative to using fossil fuels.
Support – Cash transfers to the poorest households: indicator variable equal to 1 if the re-
spondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline
prices by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance cash transfers to
the poorest households.
Support – Equal cash transfers to all households: indicator variable equal to 1 if the re-
spondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline
prices by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance equal cash transfers
to all households.
Support – Funding environmental infrastructures: indicator variable equal to 1 if the re-
spondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline
prices by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to fund environmental infras-
tructure projects (public transport, cycling ways, etc.).
Support – Green infrastructure program: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a green infrastructure program.


                                              13
Support – Mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings: indicator variable equal to 1 if
the respondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a policy where the governments
makes it mandatory for all residential buildings to have insulation that meets a certain en-
ergy efficiency standard before 2040 and where it would subsidize half of the insulation costs.
Support – Reduction in corporate income taxes: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respon-
dent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline
prices by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance a reduction in
corporate income taxes.
Support – Reduction in personal income taxes: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline prices
by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance a reduction in personal
income taxes.
Support – Reduction in the public deficit: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline prices
by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance a reduction in the public
deficit.
Support – Removal of subsidies for cattle farming: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respon-
dent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” the removal of subsidies for cattle farming.
Support – Subsidies for low-carbon technologies: indicator variable equal to 1 if the re-
spondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” subsidies for low-carbon technologies
(renewable energy, capture and storage of carbon. . . ).
Support – Subsidies on organic and local vegetables: indicator variable equal to 1 if the
respondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” subsidies on organic and local veg-
etables, fruits, and nuts.
Support – Subsidies to low-carbon tech.: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline prices by
8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to subsidize low-carbon technologies,
including renewable energy.
Support – Tax on flying (+20%): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent “somewhat
supports” or “strongly supports” a tax on flying (that increases ticket prices by 20%).
Support – Tax on fossil fuels ($45/tCO2 ): indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent
“somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a national tax on fossil fuels (increasing gasoline
prices by the equivalent of 8 cents per liter ).
Support – Tax rebates for the most affected firms: indicator variable equal to 1 if the re-
spondent “somewhat supports” or “strongly supports” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline
prices by 8 cents per liter, if the government used this revenue to finance tax rebates for the
most affected firms.
Support main climate policies index: index based on the following variables:
   • Ban on combustion-engine cars support: respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you
     support or oppose a ban on combustion-engine cars?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where
     -2 is “Strongly oppose,” 0 is “Neither support nor oppose,” and 2 is “Strongly support.”
   • Carbon tax with cash transfers support: respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you

                                              14
     support or oppose a carbon tax with cash transfers?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2
     is “Strongly oppose,” 0 is “Neither support nor oppose,” and 2 is “Strongly support.”

   • Green infrastructure program support: respondent’s answer to the question: “Do you
     support or oppose a green infrastructure program?” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2
     is “Strongly oppose,” 0 is “Neither support nor oppose,” and 2 is “Strongly support.”

Total emissions of China are higher than other regions: indicator variable equal to 1 if the
respondent considers that the total emissions of China are higher than those of the U.S., the
European Union, or India.
Willingness to adopt climate-friendly behavior: index based on the following variables. When
defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if the numerical mean of those variables is greater
than or equal to 1 and where missing values are replaced with 0 when all the variables are
not missing.

   • Limit flying: respondent’s answer to the question: “Here are possible behaviors that
     experts say would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To what extent would you
     be willing to limit flying” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Not at all,” 0 is
     “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great deal.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals
     1 if the respondent answers “a lot” or “a great deal.”

   • Limit driving: respondent’s answer to the question: “Here are possible behaviors that
     experts say would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To what extent would you
     be willing to limit driving” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is “Not at all,” 0 is
     “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great deal.” When defined as an indicator variable, equals
     1 if the respondent answers “a lot” or “a great deal.”

   • Have a fuel-efficient or electric vehicle: respondent’s answer to the question: “Here
     are possible behaviors that experts say would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To
     what extent would you be willing to have an electric vehicle” coded on a -2 to 2 scale,
     where -2 is “Not at all,” 0 is “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great deal.” When defined as
     an indicator variable, equals 1 if the respondent answers “a lot” or “a great deal.”

   • Limit beef/meat consumption: respondent’s answer to the question: “Here are possible
     behaviors that experts say would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To what extent
     would you be willing to limit beef consumption” coded on a -2 to 2 scale, where -2 is
     “Not at all,” 0 is “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great deal.” When defined as an indicator
     variable, equals 1 if the respondent answers “a lot” or “a great deal.”

   • Limit heating or cooling your home: respondent’s answer to the question: “Here are
     possible behaviors that experts say would help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To
     what extent would you be willing to limit heating or cooling your home” coded on a -2
     to 2 scale, where -2 is “Not at all,” 0 is “Moderately,” and 2 is “A great deal.” When
     defined as an indicator variable, equals 1 if the respondent answers “a lot” or “a great
     deal.”

                                             15
Willing to sign petition: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent supports the petition.
Willing to donate to reforestation cause: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent is
willing to give a share of the lottery prize.
% of prize willing to donate to reforestation cause: continuous variable from 0 to 1 equal to
the share of the lottery prize the respondent is willing to donate
Willing to pay to fight global warming: indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent is
willing to contribute annually a given amount to limit global warming to safe levels. This
amount displayed to each respondent is randomly drawn from the following options (with
conversion in local currency): $10 / $30 / $50 / $100 / $300 / $500 / $1,000.



A-2        Data collection and survey information
A-2.1       Data collection
Socioeconomic composition The respondents who choose to respond are first channeled
through screening questions that ensure that the final sample is representative along the
dimensions of gender, age, income (by quartile), region, and urban versus rural place of
residence.32

Duration We launched the survey in 2021 at different dates for each country, starting
with the U.S. in March, Denmark and France in May, Germany in August, and the other
countries in the Fall. Although the duration of data collection varied from country to country,
on average we collected 81% of our data less than one month after the launch.
   Median duration of responses is 28 minutes (excluding responses below 11 minutes),
with some heterogeneity within and between countries. Figure A1 shows the distribution of
durations on the whole sample as well as on some specific countries, including those with
the lowest and the highest median durations (South Korea and South Africa).

A-2.2       Data quality
    Ex post, we checked that there were few careless response patterns. There are several
matrices in the questionnaires, where respondents have to choose a response among a 4-
or 5-point scale for each item. Respondents who rush carelessly through the survey tend
to choose the same answer for all items in a given matrix. Thus, the number of matrices
answered with the same response to all items is a good indicator of the quality of a response.
  32
     An additional quota variable was used in two countries: ethnicity in the U.S. and education in France.
Whenever possible, we recover region and rural/urban category from the zipcode. The income variable used
is the standard of living (or equivalised disposable income as defined per Eurostat). We ask for the household
income and adjust the categories displayed to the respondent to the number of consumption units in their
household (e.g., we multiply the income thresholds by 1.5 for a childless couple). See Appendix A-11 for
details on the data sources.



                                                     16
                                                     Figure A1: Distribution of duration of responses

                                          1.0


                                          0.8




             Proportion of duration < x
                                          0.6


                                          0.4


                                                                                                        All countries
                                          0.2                                                           South Korea
                                                                                                        U.S.
                                                                                                        Poland
                                          0.0                                                           South Africa


                                                10              20               30           40                50
                                                                          Duration (in min)
Note: The vertical line represents the rushed-response threshold, of 11.5 min, below which responses are
taken out of the final sample.


On average over all respondents, 20% of the matrices are concerned (with a maximum of
27% in Turkey). Because in some cases, respondents may genuinely give the same answer
to all items of a matrix, we may focus on respondents who give the same answer to at
least half of the 14 matrices of the survey: there are 11% such respondents overall, with
a maximum of 19% in Indonesia. Respondents with more matrices with the same answer
are significantly more indifferent to policy support; they are also less likely to support and
less likely to oppose policies. For example, indifference to the support of a carbon tax with
cash transfers is 24 p.p. more likely as the share of same-answer matrices goes from 0
to 1. Given the relatively low number of respondents concerned by this careless response
pattern, the impact on our results is likely small, and tends to overestimate the indifference
to policies, if anything. Other evidence confirms a share of careless answers below one fifth.
15% of respondents do not answer to the open field (with a maximum of 38% in China).
Two questions in the survey ask for the support for a carbon tax with equal cash transfers:
a standalone question in the corresponding block, and a matrix item in the question that
compares different revenue-use of a carbon tax: 14% of respondents express their support
at one occurrence and their opposition at the other, with a maximum of 22% in Canada.
Finally, 93% of respondents give an actual ranking on total emissions, although they could
have ranked no country first as they were able to express ties.




                                                                            17
A-3   Additional figures




                           18
                                                                            Figure A2: Correlation between perceptions and reality


                                                                                        (A) Vulnerability and support for climate policies




                                                                                   Support for main climate policies index
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IDN
                                                                                                                              0.5                                                                  CHN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IND


                                                                                                                                                                                TUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          MEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRA
                                                                                                                                                                   ITA                                        ZAF
                                                                                                                                                                                       KOR
                                                                                                                              0.0                                                          UKR
                                                                                                                                                        ESP

                                                                                                                                                        GBR
                                                                                                                                                         CAN                          JPN
                                                                                                                                                                       POL
                                                                                                                                                                        USA
                                                                                                                                                                              DNK
                                                                                                                                                         FRA     AUS
                                                                                                                             -0.5
                                                                                                                                                        DEU




                                                                                                                             -1.0
                                                                                                                                                          0.30                0.35                     0.40                                                     0.45            0.50
                                                                                                                                                                         Vulnerability to CC (Notre-Dame index)

                                                                                                                                                                  High-income         Middle-income                 Overall linear ﬁtted values
                                                                                                                                     Regression Line: -0.817 + 2.603 Indicator + -0.316 High Inc Dummy, (s.e. = 1.011, R2 = 0.714 )


                                                      (B) Vulnerability and Concerns                                                                                                                                                                                                        (C) Vulnerability and
                                                           about climate change                                                                                                                                                                                                           perceived personal effects
                                                                                                                                                                 IDN                                                                                                                                            TUR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.50




Worries about the consequences of CC                                                                                                                                                                                  Believes will suﬀer from climate change
                                       0.60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IND


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BRA                         IDN
                                                                                                TUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZAF

                                       0.40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHN

                                                                                                                                                                                       IND                                                                                                         ITA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.00                                 POL            JPN

                                       0.20
                                                                                                                                                  ZAF                                                                                                                                  DEUCAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        USA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UKR
                                                                       ITA                                                           BRA                                                                                                                                               GBR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FRA
                                       0.00                             POL                                                    UKR            MEX                                                                                                                                                AUS
                                                             GBR
                                                              CAN
                                                                                                                              KOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -0.50
                                                            ESP
                                                             FRA                                                                       CHN
                                                           DEU
                                       -0.20                                     DNK
                                                                           USA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DNK
                                                                     AUS
                                                                                                                             JPN

                                       -0.40                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -1.00
                                                              0.30               0.35                                                      0.40                0.45                 0.50                                                                                                  0.30                0.35                  0.40                0.45               0.50
                                                                            Vulnerability to CC (Notre-Dame index)                                                                                                                                                                                       Vulnerability to CC (Notre-Dame index)

                                                                     High-income                                             Middle-income              Overall linear ﬁtted values                                                                                                              High-income          Middle-income              Overall linear ﬁtted values
                                               Regression Line: -0.146 + 0.755 Indicator + -0.276 High Inc Dummy, (s.e. = 1.324, R2 = 0.454 )                                                                                                                            Regression Line: -0.530 + 1.872 Indicator + -0.304 High Inc Dummy, (s.e. = 1.802, R2 = 0.466 )




Note: The figure shows the regression results of indices on the University of Notre Dame vulnerability to
climate change index (Chen et al. 2015). The three indices used are the Support for main climate policies,
the Worries about the consequences of CC and the Believes will suffer from climate change indices. See
Appendix A-1 for more precise definitions of the variables.




                                                                                                                                                                                             19
Figure A3: Do Survey Responses Reflect Actual Behaviors? Correlation between self-
reported support and actual behaviors with pre-registered variable

  Support for main climate policies index                       Willingness to change behaviors index


                                       Private Behaviors




                    Willing to donate to reforestation cause




  Share of the prize willing to donate to reforestation cause




          Willing to sign petition supporting climate action



                                                                -0.05   0.00   0.05      0.10    0.15      0.20
                                                                                 Coeﬀicients


Note: The figure shows the correlation between the indicator variables listed in each row and the Support
for main climate policies index and Willingness to change behaviors index, controlling for country fixed
effects and socioeconomic characteristics. Willing to donate to reforestation cause equals 1 if the respondent
is willing to donate a share of the money prize to deforestation. Share of the prize willing to donate to a
reforestation cause is a continuous variable from 0 to 1 equal to the share of the lottery prize the respondent
is willing to donate. Willing to sign petition supporting climate action equals 1 if the respondent is willing
to sign a petition supporting climate action.Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard
errors. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                          20
                                                      Figure A4: Expectations about the future
           (A) Shares of respondents who agree (somewhat to strongly) with each statement by country
                                                        H  ig
                                                       A h-i
                                                         us nt c
                                                       C rali om
                                                         an a
                                                       D da
                                                         en
                                                       Fr ar a
                                                             m
                                                          an k          e
                                                       G ce
                                                         er
                                                       It an
                                                       Ja   m
                                                         al y
                                                            y
                                                          pa
                                                       Po nla
                                                       So nd
                                                          ut
                                                       Sp h K
                                                          ai or
                                                       U n ea
                                                         ni
                                                       U ed t
                                                        Mni K
                                                            te in
                                                               d gd
                                                                 St om
                                                                   ates
                                                       B dl id
                                                         ra e-
                                                            z
                                                       C il nco
                                                         hi na     i    m
                                                       In
                                                       In di
                                                          do
                                                       M nes a            e
                                                          ex ia
                                                       So ico
                                                          ut
                                                       Tu h A
                                                           rk fri
                                                       U ey ca
                                                         kr  aine


     "Unlikely" or "very unlikely" that unmitigated
     CC causes extinction of humankind                   41 42 41 59 41 51 37 39 32 26 45 39 44                      29 36 44 20 17 30 33 26 31


     World will be "richer" or "much richer" in 100
     years                                               18 23 18 32 14 13 12 12 25 16 10 22 24                      40 19 79 62 58 27 21 25 23


     Ambitious policies would aﬀect negatively own
     lifestyle "a little" or "not at all"                41 47 45 50 54 35 39 22 41 29 34 45 46                      30 40 26 23 24 35 35 19 45


     Ambitious climate policies "positive" or "very
     positive" for economy                               40 39 37 37 37 38 51 30 42 42 43 42 44                      55 54 64 66 64 51 44 51 38


     CC will aﬀect me negatively "a little" or "not
     at all"                                             27 39 31 49 38 27 13 13 20 14 16 35 32                      14 15 23 12 11 10 13       9   24


     Technically possible to stop emissions by 2100:
     "a lot" or "a great deal"                           32 34 32 31 21 33 39 13 34 37 39 31 37                      43 34 65 62 49 42 28 30 20


     "Likely" or "very likely" that humans halt CC
     by 2100                                             38 44 38 38 28 30 39 28 42 49 39 39 40                      63 51 80 77 79 53 53 63 35




               (B) Correlation between expectations about the future and socioeconomic characteristics

                                Likely that an unbridled CC causes extinction of humankind                  World will be poorer in 100 years
                                Net-zero with satisfactory standards of living not technically feasible
21
                                           Demographics
                                                     Woman
                                   Lives with child(ren)<14
                                                         Age
                                               25-34 years old
                                               35-49 years old
                                                50+ years old
                                                Income
                         Between 25th and 50th percentile
                         Between 50th and 75th percentile
                                   Above 75th percentile
                                             Education
                     Has vocational or high-school degree
                                     Has a college degree
                                       Economic Leaning
                                          Very Left leaning
                                             Center leaning
                                              Right leaning
                                         Very Right leaning
                                                                  -0.10                 -0.05                0.00                 0.05              0.10
                                                                                                          Coeﬀicients



       Note: For Panel A, answers to questions about CC impacts are “Very unlikely”, “Unlikely”, “Likely”, or
       “Very likely”, for the other questions respondents are asked if they “Strongly disagree”, “Somewhat disagree”,
       “Neither agree nor disagree”, “Somewhat agree”, or “Strongly agree” with the statement. Depicted are the
       shares that find the statement “Likely” or “Very likely”, or “Somewhat agree” or “Strongly agree” with it.
       The shares represented are based on respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical
       videos). Panel B shows the coefficients from a regression of holding negative views about the future (as
       indicator variables) on indicator variables for socioeconomic characteristics, as well as country fixed effects
       and treatment indicators (not shown). Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors.
       For a list of all omitted categories, see the notes to Figure 7. See Appendix A-1 for more precise definitions
       of the variables.
Figure A5: Share of non-indifferent respondents who support policies (somewhat or strongly)
                                                                 H
                                                                A ghi
                                                                  us -in
                                                                C tra co
                                                                  an li m
                                                                D ad a
                                                                  en a
                                                                Fr ma
                                                                   a rk
                                                                G nce              e
                                                                  er
                                                                It ma
                                                                  al ny
                                                                Ja y
                                                                   p
                                                                Po an
                                                                    l
                                                                So and
                                                                   ut
                                                                Sp h
                                                                   a K
                                                                U in ore
                                                                  ni
                                                                U ted
                                                                  ni K          a
                                                                 M    te in
                                                                      i  d gSt do
                                                                              at m
                                                                                es
                                                                B dd
                                                                  ra le
                                                                C zil -in
                                                                  hi
                                                                In na            co m
                                                                In di
                                                                   do
                                                                M ne   a
                                                                   ex si             e
                                                                So ico a
                                                                   u
                                                                Tu th
                                                                    r A
                                                                U key fric
                                                                  kr   ai ne    a

Main Policies Studied
  Green infrastructure program                                  79 69 77 77 77 58 94 80 83 95 87 79 72   92 90 98 90 97 94 89 92 87
  Ban on combustion-engine cars                                 57 50 59 51 38 39 74 60 55 74 62 62 58   81 77 94 86 87 76 69 83 70
  Carbon tax with cash transfers                                56 50 60 49 44 38 72 59 54 79 58 58 53   79 70 96 85 89 71 73 73 63
Transportation Policies
  Ban on polluting cars in city centers                         76 71 75 79 71 66 90 85 78 70 74 83 66   84 77 93 87 95 85 82 72 78
  Ban on combustion-engine vehicles w. alternatives available   64 53 62 55 59 53 80 72 62 81 65 68 63   82 73 96 84 87 78 77 81 77
  Tax on ﬂying (+20%)                                           58 45 57 69 57 65 56 65 59 57 54 61 46   65 48 85 77 81 63 52 56 49
Energy Policies
  Subsidies to low-carbon technologies                          87 81 86 90 79 85 95 91 91 93 87 91 78   90 86 94 83 94 88 93 90 90
  Mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings              85 86 84 83 82 79 90 84 88 95 86 89 72   90    98          91 86 83
  Funding clean energy in low-income countries                  75 67 70 75 70 68 91 80 80 80 81 74 66   89 77 93 88 93 92 90 83 91
  Tax on fossil fuels ($45/tCO2)                                47 45 49 51 39 40 49 48 37 58 46 55 44   61 44 79 77 70 50 47 72 37
Food Policies
  Subsidies on organic and local vegetables                     75 60 68 72 75 75 91 72 89 84 78 71 65   81 76 96    89 72 72 91 69
  Ban of intensive cattle farming                               58 44 55 41 70 65 82 30 59 66 53 67 53   51 50 79    59 59 36 42 31
  Removal of subsidies for cattle farming                       50 44 51 43 41 62 65 25 50 51 52 55 58   54 59 77    69 65 38 36 31
  A high tax on cattle products, doubling beef prices           40 31 35 38 37 52 51 26 42 38 37 45 43   45 41 64    62 45 38 33 29
Support for Carbon Tax With:
  Funding environmental infrastructures                         85 80 67 84 89 84 93 90 88 94 88 85 78   92 92 96 89 96 92 94 88 90
  Subsidies to low-carbon tech.                                 86 80 66 86 85 88 94 92 89 97 87 88 76   92 93 98 87 97 91 92 88 89
  Reduction in personal income taxes                            79 72 65 61 82 79 92 88 86 88 84 76 68   87 85 95 83 90 86 85 85 87
  Cash transfers to the poorest households                      72 70 62 62 72 69 86 75 66 78 75 79 64   85 81 97 83 95 76 77 93 79
  Cash transfers to constrained households                      70 70 59 59 74 67 84 71 62 81 74 79 63   82 77 93 82 92 73 76 86 81
  Tax rebates for the most aﬀected ﬁrms                         71 64 60 57 73 53 89 75 80 85 75 70 61   82 76 95 85 92 70 82 74 79
  Reduction in the public deﬁcit                                78 74 61 67 81 76 90 80 82 83 86 78 74   89 84 95 89 96 87 90 80 84
  Progressive transfers                                         66 54 73       64 84 78 56 73 50 67      72 77 97 78 77 53 56 66 68
  Equal cash transfers to all households                        55 53 51 40 60 48 63 61 55 63 55 51 55   76 59 91 80 90 73 70 75 68
  Reduction in corporate income taxes                           55 42 45 40 55 40 81 58 72 74 68 40 43   79 74 88 77 88 82 72 78 64



Note: Policy views are elicited on a 5-point scale “Strongly oppose,” “Somewhat oppose,” “Neither support
nor oppose,” “Somewhat support,” “Strongly support.” The figure shows the share of respondents to answer
“Somewhat support,” or “Strongly support” among those who did not answer “Neither support nor oppose”
(see Figure 9 for support among all respondents). The shares represented are based on respondents in the
control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact phrasing of each question, see
Appendix A-6.




                                                                  22
            Figure A6: Support for variants of the ban on combustion-engine cars
                                                                                       y
                                                                                    an           nd
                                                                                 erm aly       la        ain
                                                                         EU    G      It    Po        Sp
                                                     Supports a ban     46    31   54      44       54

                                           Supports a 10,000... fine    23    27   27      18       21

                                          Supports a 100,000... fine    22    25   25      17       23

                                                       Prefers a ban    63    43   76      62       71

                                             Prefers a 10,000... fine   26    45   13      24       20

                  Places a 10,000... fine as second−preferred option    61    37   72      68       66

                   Places a 100,000... fine as least−preferred option   66    52   75      68       69

                             Places a ban as least−preferred option     20    30   11      24       16



Note: After the support for a ban, respondents are randomly allocated to three groups: the first two are
asked whether they support a variant where the ban is replaced by a e10,000 or e100,000 penalty, and the
third is asked to rank the three variants of the ban. Policy support is elicited on a 5-point scale “Strongly
oppose,” “Somewhat oppose,” “Neither support nor oppose,” “Somewhat support,” and “Strongly support.”
The figure shows the share of respondents to answer “Somewhat support,” or “Strongly support”. The shares
represented are based on respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos).
For the exact phrasing of each question, see Appendix A-6.




                                                           23
Figure A7: Share of respondents who find the following sources of funding appropriate for
public investments in green infrastructure? (Multiple answers possible)
                                                              H
                                                             A h-ig
                                                               us in
                                                                   t
                                                             C ral com
                                                               an ia
                                                             D ada
                                                               en
                                                             Fr mar
                                                                an k           e
                                                             G ce
                                                               er
                                                             It an
                                                             Ja   m
                                                               al y
                                                                  y
                                                                pa
                                                             Po nla
                                                             So nd
                                                                ut
                                                             Sp h K
                                                                ai o
                                                             U n rea
                                                               ni
                                                             U ed t
                                                              Mni K
                                                                  te in
                                                                     d gd
                                                                        St o
                                                                          at m
                                                                            es
                                                             B dl id
                                                               ra e
                                                                  z -
                                                             C il inc
                                                               hi na         om
                                                             In di
                                                             In a
                                                                do
                                                             M nes               e
                                                                ex ia
                                                             So ico
                                                                ut
                                                             Tu h A
                                                                 rk fr
                                                             U ey ica
                                                               kr  ai ne



Increase in taxes on the wealthiest                          68 62 75 59 70 69 69 66 62 76 72 73 62      68 64 67 61 74 64 65 82 71


Carbon tax* (increasing gasoline prices by 0.40cts/gallon)   63 59 48 60 66 61 76 56 68 78 69 63 58      75 78 77 71 81 73 79 73 69


Reduction in military spending                               37 30 37 39 26 49 61 37 40 19 50 29 28      29 44   9   22 19 36 40 31 31


Additional public debt                                       28 32 24 31 22 30 22 35 21 31 34 31 26      30 33 46 37 32 26 21 26 17


Reduction in social spending                                 26 30 30 24 34 24 25 16 39 16 19 25 29      37 34 56 44 26 30 45 47 11


Increase in sales taxes                                      18 23 21 12 14 14   8   33 13 29 10 23 23   27 10 42 38 46 18 24 20    9




Note: Share of respondents who find the listed sources of funding appropriate. The carbon tax did not appear
in the possible options; the figures for the carbon tax are taken from another question, and correspond to
people who “Support” or “Strongly support” a carbon tax that would raise gasoline prices by 40 cents (or
equivalent) per gallon, if the government used its revenue for funding environmental infrastructure projects.
The shares represented are based on respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical
videos).




                                                                       24
                                                    Figure A8: Support for main climate policies
     (A) Correlation between support for the main climate policies and socioeconomic and energy usage
     characteristics
                  Ban on combustion-engine cars                           Green infrastructure program                                Carbon tax with cash transfers

                             Demographics                                                                                  Place Charac.
                                       Woman
                                                                                                                        Small agglomeration
                     Lives with child(ren)<14
                                                                                                                    Medium agglomeration
                                           Age
                                                                                                                        Large agglomeration
                                 25-34 years old
                                 35-49 years old                                                              Public transport available
                                  50+ years old

                                   Income                                                                                   Energy Usage
            Between 25th and 50th percentile                                                                                         Uses car
            Between 50th and 75th percentile
                      Above 75th percentile                                                                               High gas expenses

                                                                                                                    High heating expenses
                                  Education
                                                                                                            Flies more than once a year
          Has vocational or high-school degree
                          Has a college degree                                                                    Works in polluting sector

                                                                                                       Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                        Economic Leaning
                           Very Left leaning
                              Center leaning
                                                                                                                         Personal Charac.
                               Right leaning
                          Very Right leaning                                                                              Owner or landlord

                                                        -0.20   -0.10      0.00     0.10                                                       -0.20            -0.10        0.00            0.10
                                                                    Coeﬀicients                                                                                      Coeﬀicients

25                                 (B) Heterogeneous effects of car-dependency across countries



             Not signiﬁcant, p-val>0.10                                       Nationally representative                                         Online representative
                  Green infrastructure program                                Carbon tax with cash transfers                                    Ban on combustion-engine cars
                                 AUS
                                                                                   AUS                                                                       AUS
                                  CAN                                                      CAN                                                                     CAN

                                                                                               DEU
                         DEU                                                                                                                             DEU
                                      DNK                                                        DNK                                                                 DNK

                                      ESP                                                      ESP
                                                                                                                                                             ESP

                         FRA                                                      FRA                                                                  FRA
                                   ITA                                                     ITA                                                                     ITA

                                 JPN                                                                                                                               JPN
                                                                                         JPN
                                      KOR                                                            KOR
                                                                                                                                                               KOR
                                POL
                                                                                         POL                                                           POL
                                GBR
                                                                                   GBR                                                            GBR
                                         USA                                                                USA                                                                USA

                                                  BRA                                                 BRA                                                                  BRA

                                            CHN                                                                                                                                      CHN
                                                                                                                CHN
                                                                                                              IND
                                                          IND                                                                                                                          IND
                                                    IDN                                                           IDN                                                            IDN

                               MEX                                                         MEX                                                                       MEX

                                            TUR                                                             TUR                                                          TUR

                                       UKR                                                             UKR                                                               UKR

                                  ZAF                                                           ZAF                                                                      ZAF




           -0.2       -0.1         0.0              0.1         0.2    -0.2       -0.1         0.0                 0.1         0.2      -0.2            -0.1         0.0               0.1      0.2
                               Coeﬀicients                                                 Coeﬀicients                                                           Coeﬀicients

     Note: Panel A shows the coefficients from regressions of support for climate policies (indicator variable equal
     to 1 if the respondent supports the policy somewhat or strongly) on socioeconomic indicators (left panel) and
     on socioeconomic and energy usage indicators (right panel). Country fixed effects and treatment indicators
     are included but not displayed, likewise for individual socioeconomic characteristics in the right panel. Bars
     represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. For a list of all omitted categories, see the
     notes to Figure 10. Panel B reports the coefficients on car-dependency across countries, using the same
     controls as in panel A. Bars represent 90% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix
     A-1 for variable detailed definitions. Control group means are .52 for Ban on combustion-engine cars, .66
     for Green infrastructure program, and .46 for Carbon tax with cash transfers.
Figure A9: Share who support the main climate policies by socioeconomic, energy usage
characteristics, and treatment group in high-income countries
        Ban on combustion engine cars           Green infrastructure program               Carbon tax with cash transfers

                 Demographics                                                 Place Characteristics
                             Man                                                            Rural area
                          Woman
                                                                                  Small agglomeration
Does not live with child(ren)<14
       Lives with child(ren)<14                                                 Medium agglomeration
                             Age                                                  Large agglomeration
                  25-34 years old                                         No public transport available
                  35-49 years old
                   50+ years old                                             Public transport available
                         Income                                                        Energy Usage
                              Q1                                                      Does not use car
                              Q2
                                                                                              Uses car
                              Q3
                              Q4                                                     Low gas expenses
                     Education                                                       High gas expenses
                    No education                                                 Low heating expenses
                     High School
                                                                                High heating expenses
                        College+
                  Econ leaning                                              Flies less than once a year
                        Very left                                          Flies more than once a year
                             Left                                        Works in non-polluting sector
                           Center
                            Right                                            Works in polluting sector
                       Very right                                 Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                     Treatment                                          Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                          Control
                                                                           Personal Characteristics
                Climate impacts
                 Climate policies                                                               Tenant
                Both treatments                                                     Owner or landlord

                                    30 40 50 60 70 80 90                                                  30 40 50 60 70 80 90

                                         % Support                                                             % Support


Note: The figure shows the share of respondents who support (somewhat or strongly) each of the three main
policies, by group. Except for the rows labeled “Treatment,” all means are taken over respondents in the
control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). A 95% confidence interval is displayed. Bars
represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for detailed variable
definitions.




                                                             26
Figure A10: Share who support the main climate policies by socioeconomic, energy usage
characteristics, and treatment group in middle-income countries
        Ban on combustion engine cars           Green infrastructure program               Carbon tax with cash transfers

                 Demographics                                                 Place Characteristics
                             Man                                                            Rural area
                          Woman
                                                                                  Small agglomeration
Does not live with child(ren)<14
       Lives with child(ren)<14                                                 Medium agglomeration
                             Age                                                  Large agglomeration
                  25-34 years old                                         No public transport available
                  35-49 years old
                   50+ years old                                             Public transport available
                         Income                                                        Energy Usage
                              Q1                                                      Does not use car
                              Q2
                                                                                              Uses car
                              Q3
                              Q4                                                     Low gas expenses
                     Education                                                       High gas expenses
                    No education                                                 Low heating expenses
                     High School
                                                                                High heating expenses
                        College+
                  Econ leaning                                              Flies less than once a year
                        Very left                                          Flies more than once a year
                             Left                                        Works in non-polluting sector
                           Center
                            Right                                            Works in polluting sector
                       Very right                                 Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                     Treatment                                          Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                          Control
                                                                           Personal Characteristics
                Climate impacts
                 Climate policies                                                               Tenant
                Both treatments                                                     Owner or landlord

                                    30 40 50 60 70 80 90                                                  30 40 50 60 70 80 90

                                         % Support                                                             % Support


Note: The figure shows the share of respondents who support (somewhat or strongly) each of the three main
policies, by group. Except for the rows labeled “Treatment” all means are taken over respondents in the
control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). A 95% confidence interval is displayed. Bars
represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for variable detailed
definitions.




                                                             27
Figure A11: Correlation between indifference towards the main climate policies and socioe-
conomic and energy usage characteristics

                   Indiﬀerent to a ban on combustion-engine cars               Indiﬀerent to a green infrastructure program
                   Indiﬀerent to a carbon tax with cash transfers

                   Demographics
                             Woman                                                               Place Charac.
           Lives with child(ren)<14                                                          Small agglomeration
                               Age                                                        Medium agglomeration
                     25-34 years old
                     35-49 years old                                                         Large agglomeration
                      50+ years old
                                                                                        Public transport available
                         Income
  Between 25th and 50th percentile
  Between 50th and 75th percentile                                                               Energy Usage
            Above 75th percentile
                                                                                                         Uses car
                        Education                                                              High gas expenses
Has vocational or high-school degree
                Has a college degree                                                       High heating expenses

              Economic Leaning                                                        Flies more than once a year
                 Very Left leaning
                                                                                        Works in polluting sector
                    Center leaning
                     Right leaning                                                 Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                Very Right leaning

                       Treatment
                   Climate Impacts                                                           Personal Charac.
                    Climate Policies                                                           Owner or landlord
                   Both Treatments
                                       -0.10   -0.05 0.00       0.05   0.10                                          -0.10   -0.05      0.00     0.05   0.10
                                                    Coeﬀicients                                                                      Coeﬀicients



Note: The figure shows the coefficients from a regression of being indifferent to the three main climate
policies (indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent neither support nor oppose the policy). In the
right panel, we control for but do not display the coefficients on socioeconomic indicators. Country fixed
effects and indicators for each treatment are included but not displayed. Bars represent 95% confidence
intervals using robust standard errors. The omitted category for Place characteristics is “Rural or very
small agglomeration.” For a list of all omitted categories, see the notes to Figure 7. See Appendix A-1 for
detailed variable definitions.




                                                                              28
Figure A12: Correlation between support for the other climate policies and socioeconomic
and energy usage characteristics

 Ban on combustion-engine cars w. alternatives available     Carbon tax w. progressive transfers Tax on fossil fuels
 Ban of polluting vehicles in dense areas                    Tax on ﬂying (raising price by 20%) Subsidies for low-carbon technologies
 Support of mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings

                    Demographics                                                                  Place Charac.
                             Woman
                                                                                              Small agglomeration
            Lives with child(ren)<14
                                                                                           Medium agglomeration
                                                                                              Large agglomeration
                            Income
                                                                                         Public transport available
   Between 25th and 50th percentile
   Between 50th and 75th percentile
               Above 75th percentile                                                              Energy Usage
                                                                                                          Uses car
                         Education                                                              High gas expenses
 Has vocational or high-school degree                                                       High heating expenses
                 Has a college degree                                                  Flies more than once a year
                                                                                         Works in polluting sector
               Economic Leaning
                                                                                    Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                   Very Left leaning
                      Center leaning
                                                                                              Personal Charac.
                       Right leaning
                  Very Right leaning                                                            Owner or landlord

                                        -0.20   -0.10   0.00     0.10   0.20                                      -0.20   -0.10      0.00     0.10   0.20
                                                     Coeﬀicients                                                                  Coeﬀicients



Note: The figure shows the results of regressions of support for climate policies (indicators) on socioeconomic
indicators (left panel) and on socioeconomic and energy usage indicators (right panel). Country fixed effects
and treatment indicators are included but not displayed, likewise for individual socioeconomic characteristics
in the right panel. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-
1 for variable detailed definitions. Control group means are .57 for Ban on combustion-engine cars w.
alternatives available, .65 for Ban of polluting vehicles in dense areas, .42 for Tax on fossil fuels, .48 for
Tax on flying (raising price by 20%), .71 for Subsidies for low-carbon technologies, and .62 for Support of
mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings.




                                                                               29
             Figure A13: Perceived characteristics of a ban on combustion-engine cars
                                                H
                                               A h-ig
                                                 us in
                                                     t c
                                               C ral om
                                                 an ia
                                               D ada
                                                 en
                                               Fr mar
                                                  an k          e
                                               G ce
                                                 er
                                               It an
                                               Ja   m
                                                 al y
                                                    y
                                                  pa
                                               Po nla
                                               So nd
                                                  ut
                                               Sp h K
                                                  ai or
                                               U n ea
                                                 ni
                                               U ed t
                                                Mni K
                                                    te in
                                                       d gd
                                                         St o
                                                           at m
                                                             es
                                               B dl id
                                                 ra e
                                                    z -
                                               C il inc
                                                 hi na        om
                                               In
                                               In di
                                                  do
                                               M nes a            e
                                                  ex ia
                                               So ico
                                                  ut
                                               Tu h A
                                                   rk fr
                                               U ey ica
                                                 kr  aine

Eﬀectiveness of the Climate Policy
  Reduce air pollution                         79 77 82 77 65 74 86 86 79 84 82 81 76               84 86 83 83 88 81 84 83 83
  Reduce CO2 emissions from cars               74 71 76 70 60 69 82 81 72 80 76 78 71               78 83 76 82 80 71 78 78 76
  Positive eﬀect on economy and employment     35 33 36 31 38 29 40 31 38 29 36 33 44               40 48 37 42 42 37 34 40 36
  Large eﬀect on economy and employment        52 55 55 34 48 60 53 60 54 50 51 54 55               63 68 56 67 72 57 68 60 54
  Costless way to ﬁght climate change          39 25 32 49 58 25 35 25 59 40 37 24 53               38 41 33 39 41 40 29 40 37
Distributional Impacts of the Climate Policy
Believes the following groups would gain
  Those living in rural areas                  16 13 19      7   20   9   24 14 17 14 16 16 20      36 30 47 56 48 29 17 34 13
  Low-income earners                           12   9   17   5   13   9   17 10 13   9   12 11 19   35 29 52 54 43 27 16 33 15
  The middle class                             15 15 19      8   11 10 20 11 14 13 14 16 23         35 36 45 49 45 29 20 31 14
  High-income earners                          40 43 48 48 41 38 44 23 32 30 38 46 45               49 54 43 53 55 45 56 45 36
Self-Interest
  Own household                                15 15 23 10 24 10 14 10 13 10 16 15 22               35 33 53 55 43 32 16 29 12
Perceived Fairness and Support
  Support main climate policy                  43 36 46 42 27 31 54 41 44 52 54 46 42               64 60 71 77 64 67 52 62 58
  Main climate policy is fair                  40 36 42 36 27 30 59 29 38 50 43 46 39               59 62 63 77 61 50 43 56 51




Note: The questions on the effectiveness and fairness have answer options Strongly disagree/Somewhat
disagree/Neither agree nor disagree/Somewhat agree/Strongly agree. We report the share of respondents
who answer “Somewhat agree” or “Strongly agree.” Questions on the distributional impacts and self-
interest have answer options Lose a lot/Mostly lose/Neither win nor lose/Mostly win/Win a lot. Depicted is
the share of respondents who say “Mostly win” or “Win a lot.” “Support main climate policies” has answer
options Strongly oppose/Somewhat oppose/Neither support nor oppose/Somewhat support/Strongly support.
We show the share of respondents who “Somewhat support” or “Strongly support.” The shares represented
are based on respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact
phrasing of each question, see the Questionnaire in Appendix A-6.




                                                                 30
             Figure A14: Perceived characteristics of a carbon tax with cash transfers
                                                H
                                               A h-ig
                                                 us in
                                                     t c
                                               C ral om
                                                 an ia
                                               D ada
                                                 en
                                               Fr mar
                                                  an k          e
                                               G ce
                                                 er
                                               It an
                                               Ja   m
                                                 al y
                                                    y
                                                  pa
                                               Po nla
                                               So nd
                                                  ut
                                               Sp h K
                                                  ai or
                                               U n ea
                                                 ni
                                               U ed t
                                                Mni K
                                                    te in
                                                       d gd
                                                         St o
                                                           at m
                                                             es
                                               B dl id
                                                 ra e
                                                    z -
                                               C il inc
                                                 hi na        om
                                               In
                                               In di
                                                  do
                                               M nes a            e
                                                  ex ia
                                               So ico
                                                  ut
                                               Tu h A
                                                   rk fr
                                               U ey ica
                                                 kr  aine

Eﬀectiveness of the Climate Policy
  Reduce air pollution                         69 65 67 66 61 58 75 82 74 78 68 66 66       80 76 84 83 86 74 83 81 74
  Reduce GHG emissions                         64 60 63 63 56 52 72 75 65 74 63 65 60       75 70 79 79 80 68 79 73 65
  Encourage insulation of buildings            64 58 67 63 65 50 68 75 70 71 58 63 62       69 50 70 75 71 62 74 76 73
  Encourage people to drive less               51 45 49 51 42 40 51 57 56 68 55 49 53       69 69 77 79 69 61 67 71 51
  Positive eﬀect on economy and employment     31 34 33 18 25 27 37 30 40 34 38 32 21       41 42 37 42 44 40 42 44 39
  Large eﬀect on economy and employment        46 52 47 32 41 48 45 50 54 40 46 46 55       61 62 60 67 71 48 65 60 48
  Costless way to ﬁght climate change          27 24 27 17    9   24 33 24 56 36 38 20 12   36 37 31 41 40 33 33 38 31
Distributional Impacts of the Climate Policy
Believes the following groups would gain
  Those living in rural areas                  20 19 21   9   21 14 27 24 23 26 22 15 23    43 34 64 59 49 37 31 40 17
  Low-income earners                           22 19 26 15 19 17 25 28 24 28 22 19 23       42 35 66 55 48 34 29 40 17
  The middle class                             21 22 23 12 19 13 24 25 21 23 20 19 26       39 35 54 51 48 32 29 41 18
  High-income earners                          33 38 36 32 32 35 37 25 26 31 31 38 35       41 41 40 45 50 35 38 38 32
Self-Interest
  Own household                                20 22 25 14 18 15 19 19 25 23 21 18 24       40 31 65 56 49 34 27 36 14
Perceived Fairness and Support
  Support main climate policy                  37 34 42 31 28 27 47 35 35 53 43 36 34       59 47 79 70 66 56 52 56 39
  Main climate policy is fair                  35 33 40 28 32 26 44 28 33 49 34 35 35       55 48 73 71 54 45 53 51 41



Note: The questions on the effectiveness and fairness have answer options Strongly disagree/Somewhat
disagree/Neither agree nor disagree/Somewhat agree/Strongly agree. We report the share of respondents
who answer “Somewhat agree” or “Strongly agree.” Questions on the distributional impacts and self-
interest have answer options Lose a lot/Mostly lose/Neither win nor lose/Mostly win/Win a lot. Depicted is
the share of respondents who say “Mostly win” or “Win a lot.” “Support main climate policies” has answer
options Strongly oppose/Somewhat oppose/Neither support nor oppose/Somewhat support/Strongly support.
We show the share of respondents who “Somewhat support” or “Strongly support.” The shares represented
are based on respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact
phrasing of each question, see the Questionnaire in Appendix A-6.




                                                              31
                Figure A15: Perceived characteristics of a green infrastructure program
                                                H
                                               A h-ig
                                                 us in
                                                     t c
                                               C ral om
                                                 an ia
                                               D ada
                                                 en
                                               Fr mar
                                                  an k          e
                                               G ce
                                                 er
                                               It an
                                               Ja   m
                                                 al y
                                                    y
                                                  pa
                                               Po nla
                                               So nd
                                                  ut
                                               Sp h K
                                                  ai or
                                               U n ea
                                                 ni
                                               U ed t
                                                Mni K
                                                    te in
                                                       d gd
                                                         St o
                                                           at m
                                                             es
                                               B dl id
                                                 ra e
                                                    z -
                                               C il inc
                                                 hi na        om
                                               In
                                               In di
                                                  do
                                               M nes a            e
                                                  ex ia
                                               So ico
                                                  ut
                                               Tu h A
                                                   rk fr
                                               U ey ica
                                                 kr  aine

Eﬀectiveness of the Climate Policy
  Reduce air pollution                         77 71 76 73 67 68 85 86 81 85 79 77 72   83 87 79 83 90 79 85 82 76
  Make electricity production greener          71 68 68 69 58 61 80 79 77 79 71 72 66   78 83 79 83 79 72 73 82 73
  Increase the use of public transport         61 57 58 48 54 56 69 70 69 74 67 55 55   71 73 74 78 79 58 65 77 61
  Positive eﬀect on economy and employment     37 41 39 24 32 34 47 35 49 31 46 34 29   45 51 39 45 49 45 44 44 40
  Large eﬀect on economy and employment        50 57 51 35 43 56 51 58 60 38 51 49 57   63 66 60 68 72 58 63 58 52
  Costless way to ﬁght climate change          30 30 26 17 16 24 38 26 65 40 44 21 16   39 45 30 40 46 41 33 40 34
Distributional Impacts of the Climate Policy
Believes the following groups would gain
  Those living in rural areas                  24 23 24 11 29 15 32 23 28 28 32 21 28   50 49 63 62 58 50 32 51 22
  Low-income earners                           21 19 25 14 24 13 27 15 22 18 27 18 28   47 54 58 57 55 47 31 49 18
  The middle class                             22 24 24 14 22 14 29 15 20 22 26 19 27   48 57 50 56 55 46 36 52 26
  High-income earners                          39 42 44 40 40 35 47 27 35 40 38 42 39   51 56 45 52 60 48 56 47 42
Self-Interest
  Own household                                23 23 29 16 25 13 23 12 24 21 31 22 30   50 48 62 66 57 56 34 48 16
Perceived Fairness and Support
  Support main climate policy                  58 49 56 55 58 42 79 49 58 69 70 56 52   78 76 81 79 79 84 72 76 69
  Main climate policy is fair                  51 45 50 44 49 36 77 36 47 64 62 49 51   71 75 78 81 70 70 68 67 56




Note: The questions on the effectiveness and fairness have answer options Strongly disagree/Somewhat
disagree/Neither agree nor disagree/Somewhat agree/Strongly agree. We report the share of respondents
who answer “Somewhat agree” or “Strongly agree.” Questions on the distributional impacts and self-
interest have answer options Lose a lot/Mostly lose/Neither win nor lose/Mostly win/Win a lot. Depicted is
the share of respondents who say “Mostly win” or “Win a lot.” “Support main climate policies” has answer
options Strongly oppose/Somewhat oppose/Neither support nor oppose/Somewhat support/Strongly support.
We show the share of respondents who “Somewhat support” or “Strongly support.” The shares represented
are based on respondents in the control group only (who did not see any pedagogical videos). For the exact
phrasing of each question, see the Questionnaire in Appendix A-6.




                                                           32
     Figure A16: Share of respondents who hold key beliefs about the main climate policies by
     socioeconomic characteristics, energy usage, and treatment group in high-income countries
                                           (A) Share who believes [policy] would reduce pollution


             Ban on combustion-engine cars                    Green infrastructure program               Carbon tax with cash transfers

                      Demographics                                                          Place Characteristics
                                  Man                                                                      Rural area
                               Woman
                                                                                                 Small agglomeration
     Does not live with child(ren)<14
            Lives with child(ren)<14                                                         Meidum agglomeration
                                  Age                                                            Large agglomeration
                       25-34 years old                                                 No public transport available
                       35-49 years old
                        50+ years old                                                     Public transport available
                              Income                                                                  Energy Usage
                                   Q1                                                                Does not use car
                                   Q2
                                                                                                             Uses car
                                   Q3
                                   Q4                                                               Low gas expenses
                          Education                                                                High gas expenses
                         No education                                                          Low heating expenses
                          High School
                                                                                              High heating expenses
                             College+
                       Econ leaning                                                       Flies less than once a year
                             Very left                                                  Flies more than once a year
                                  Left                                                Works in non-polluting sector
                                Center
                                 Right                                                     Works in polluting sector
                            Very right                                         Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                          Treatment                                                  Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                               Control
                                                                                        Personal Characteristics
                          CC impacts
                           CC policies                                                                        Tenant
                     Both treatments                                                               Owner or landlord


33                                        0.60       0.70    0.80       0.90                                             0.60      0.70    0.80   0.90

                                                 Share of Respondents                                                          Share of Respondents


                                  (B) Share who believes own household would lose from [policy]


             Ban on combustion-engine cars                    Green infrastructure program               Carbon tax with cash transfers

                      Demographics                                                          Place Characteristics
                                  Man                                                                      Rural area
                               Woman
                                                                                                 Small agglomeration
     Does not live with child(ren)<14
            Lives with child(ren)<14                                                         Meidum agglomeration
                                  Age                                                            Large agglomeration
                       25-34 years old                                                 No public transport available
                       35-49 years old
                        50+ years old                                                     Public transport available
                              Income                                                                  Energy Usage
                                   Q1                                                                Does not use car
                                   Q2
                                                                                                             Uses car
                                   Q3
                                   Q4                                                               Low gas expenses
                          Education                                                                High gas expenses
                         No education                                                          Low heating expenses
                          High School
                                                                                              High heating expenses
                             College+
                       Econ leaning                                                       Flies less than once a year
                             Very left                                                  Flies more than once a year
                                  Left                                                Works in non-polluting sector
                                Center
                                 Right                                                     Works in polluting sector
                            Very right                                         Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                          Treatment                                                  Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                               Control
                                                                                        Personal Characteristics
                          CC impacts
                           CC policies                                                                        Tenant
                     Both treatments                                                               Owner or landlord

                                         0.10       0.20     0.30       0.40                                            0.10       0.20    0.30       0.40

                                                 Share of Respondents                                                          Share of Respondents
                         (C) Share who believes low-income earners would lose from [policy]


        Ban on combustion-engine cars                      Green infrastructure program                   Carbon tax with cash transfers

                 Demographics                                                                Place Characteristics
                             Man                                                                            Rural area
                          Woman
                                                                                                  Small agglomeration
Does not live with child(ren)<14
       Lives with child(ren)<14                                                               Meidum agglomeration
                             Age                                                                  Large agglomeration
                  25-34 years old                                                       No public transport available
                  35-49 years old
                   50+ years old                                                           Public transport available
                         Income                                                                        Energy Usage
                              Q1                                                                      Does not use car
                              Q2
                                                                                                              Uses car
                              Q3
                              Q4                                                                     Low gas expenses
                     Education                                                                      High gas expenses
                    No education                                                                Low heating expenses
                     High School
                                                                                               High heating expenses
                        College+
                  Econ leaning                                                             Flies less than once a year
                        Very left                                                        Flies more than once a year
                             Left                                                      Works in non-polluting sector
                           Center
                            Right                                                           Works in polluting sector
                       Very right                                               Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                     Treatment                                                        Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                          Control
                                                                                         Personal Characteristics
                     CC impacts
                      CC policies                                                                              Tenant
                Both treatments                                                                     Owner or landlord

                                    0.10     0.20   0.30     0.40   0.50                                                 0.10   0.20   0.30   0.40   0.50

                                           Share of Respondents                                                             Share of Respondents



Note: The figure shows the share of respondents who agree (somewhat or strongly) with the statement.
Means are shown by socioeconomic characteristics, treatment group, and energy usage. Except for the rows
labeled “Treatment,” the means are taken over respondents in the control group only (who did not see
any pedagogical videos). A 95% confidence interval is displayed. See Appendix A-1 for variable detailed
definitions.




                                                                           34
     Figure A17: Share of respondents who hold key beliefs about the main climate policies by
     socioeconomic characteristics, energy usage, and treatment group in middle-income countries


                                          (A) Share who believes [policy] would reduce pollution


             Ban on combustion-engine cars                 Green infrastructure program                Carbon tax with cash transfers

                      Demographics                                                       Place Characteristics
                                  Man                                                                   Rural area
                               Woman
                                                                                              Small agglomeration
     Does not live with child(ren)<14
            Lives with child(ren)<14                                                      Meidum agglomeration
                                  Age                                                         Large agglomeration
                       25-34 years old                                              No public transport available
                       35-49 years old
                        50+ years old                                                  Public transport available
                              Income                                                               Energy Usage
                                   Q1                                                             Does not use car
                                   Q2
                                                                                                          Uses car
                                   Q3
                                   Q4                                                            Low gas expenses
                          Education                                                             High gas expenses
                         No education                                                       Low heating expenses
                          High School
                                                                                           High heating expenses
                             College+
                       Econ leaning                                                    Flies less than once a year
                             Very left                                               Flies more than once a year
                                  Left                                             Works in non-polluting sector
                                Center
                                 Right                                                  Works in polluting sector
                            Very right                                      Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                          Treatment                                               Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                               Control
                                                                                     Personal Characteristics
                          CC impacts
                           CC policies                                                                     Tenant
                     Both treatments                                                            Owner or landlord
35
                                     0.70    0.75   0.80   0.85     0.90                                             0.70    0.75   0.80   0.85   0.90

                                             Share of Respondents                                                           Share of Respondents


                                  (B) Share who believes own household would lose from [policy]


             Ban on combustion-engine cars                 Green infrastructure program               Carbon tax with cash transfers

                      Demographics                                                       Place Characteristics
                                  Man                                                                   Rural area
                               Woman
                                                                                              Small agglomeration
     Does not live with child(ren)<14
            Lives with child(ren)<14                                                      Meidum agglomeration
                                  Age                                                         Large agglomeration
                       25-34 years old                                              No public transport available
                       35-49 years old
                        50+ years old                                                  Public transport available
                              Income                                                               Energy Usage
                                   Q1                                                             Does not use car
                                   Q2
                                                                                                          Uses car
                                   Q3
                                   Q4                                                            Low gas expenses
                          Education                                                             High gas expenses
                         No education                                                       Low heating expenses
                          High School
                                                                                           High heating expenses
                             College+
                       Econ leaning                                                    Flies less than once a year
                             Very left                                               Flies more than once a year
                                  Left                                             Works in non-polluting sector
                                Center
                                 Right                                                  Works in polluting sector
                            Very right                                      Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                          Treatment                                               Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                               Control
                                                                                     Personal Characteristics
                          CC impacts
                           CC policies                                                                     Tenant
                     Both treatments                                                            Owner or landlord

                                         0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70                                                0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70

                                             Share of Respondents                                                           Share of Respondents
                         (C) Share who believes low-income earners would lose from [policy]


        Ban on combustion-engine cars                Green infrastructure program                   Carbon tax with cash transfers

                 Demographics                                                          Place Characteristics
                             Man                                                                      Rural area
                          Woman
                                                                                            Small agglomeration
Does not live with child(ren)<14
       Lives with child(ren)<14                                                         Meidum agglomeration
                             Age                                                            Large agglomeration
                  25-34 years old                                                 No public transport available
                  35-49 years old
                   50+ years old                                                     Public transport available
                         Income                                                                  Energy Usage
                              Q1                                                                Does not use car
                              Q2
                                                                                                        Uses car
                              Q3
                              Q4                                                               Low gas expenses
                     Education                                                                High gas expenses
                    No education                                                          Low heating expenses
                     High School
                                                                                         High heating expenses
                        College+
                  Econ leaning                                                       Flies less than once a year
                        Very left                                                  Flies more than once a year
                             Left                                                Works in non-polluting sector
                           Center
                            Right                                                     Works in polluting sector
                       Very right                                         Eats beef/meat less than once a week
                     Treatment                                                  Eats beef/meat weekly or more
                          Control
                                                                                   Personal Characteristics
                     CC impacts
                      CC policies                                                                        Tenant
                Both treatments                                                               Owner or landlord

                                0.20   0.30   0.40   0.50     0.60                                             0.20    0.30   0.40   0.50   0.60

                                       Share of Respondents                                                           Share of Respondents



Note: The figure shows the share of respondents who agree (somewhat or strongly) with the statement.
Means are shown by socioeconomic characteristics, treatment group, and energy usage. Except for the rows
labeled “Treatment,” the means are taken over respondents in the control group only (who did not see
any pedagogical videos). A 95% confidence interval is displayed. See Appendix A-1 for variable detailed
definitions.




                                                                     36
Figure A18: Beliefs underlying policy support, views on fairness, and willingness to change
behaviors
(A) Correlation between the “Fairness of main climate policies,” “Support for main climate poli-
cies,” and “Willingness to adopt climate-friendly behavior” indices and beliefs

  Fairness of main climate policies index                          Support for main climate policies index                        Willingness to adopt climate-friendly behavior index



                                     Trust and General Perceptions
                                                   Trusts the government
                             Believes inequality is an important problem
                                         Views about Climate Change
                                     Worries about the consequences of CC
                                     Believes net-zero is technically feasible
                                    Believes will suﬀer from climate change
                                    Climate Change Knowledge
                       Understands emissions across activities/regions
                              Knows CC is real & caused by humans
                                       Knows which gases cause CC
                                               Knows impacts of CC
                              Eﬀects of Main Climate Policies
                 Considers policies would have positive econ. eﬀects
                          Considers policies would reduce pollution
                         Considers policies would reduce emissions
         Distributional Impacts of Main Climate Policies
                            Believes own household would lose
                        Believes low-income earners would lose
                       Believes high-income earners would lose
                                                                                                                 -0.40                -0.20              0.00                       0.20                    0.40
                                                                                                                                                      Coeﬀicients
(B) Share of the variation in “Fairness of main climate polcies” (left, R2 : 0.70) and “Willingness
to adopt climate-friendly behavior” (right, R2 : 0.50) indices explained by different beliefs

                 Believes own household would lose                                                    15.9              Believes policies would reduce emissions                                                8.9

           Believes policies would reduce emissions                                            13.3                       Worries about the consequences of CC                                        6.3

            Believes policies would reduce pollution                                9.4                                  Believes will suﬀer from climate change                                      6.2

            Believes low-income earners would lose                                  9.3                                  Believes policies would reduce pollution                                 5.8

Believes the policy would have positive econ. eﬀects                     4.6                                                  Believes own household would lose                                 5.4

             Worries about the consequences of CC                   3.9                                                   Believes net-zero is technically feasible                       4.2

            Believes will suﬀer from climate change                 3.7                                                  Believes low-income earners would lose                      3.7

             Believes net-zero is technically feasible             3.4                                                                                    Country                   3.6

                                             Country               3.2                                                   Knows CC is real & caused by humans               2.2

                             Trusts the government           2.0                                             Believes the policy would have positive econ. eﬀects         2.0

            Knows CC is real & caused by humans 1.4                                                                                       Trusts the government 0.7

                                                         0                     5          10          15                                                              0     2              4            6   8
                                                                         % of response variances                                                                                % of response variances

Note: Panel A shows the results of regressions of indices on standardized variables measuring respondent’s
beliefs and perceptions. Country fixed effects, treatment indicators, and individual socioeconomic charac-
teristics are included but not displayed. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard
errors. Panel B depicts the share of the variance in the Fairness of main climate policies and Willingness
to adopt climate-friendly behaviors indices that is explained by each belief and perception, conditional on
country fixed effects, treatment indicators, and individual socioeconomic characteristics. See Figure 13
for the variance decomposition of the support and details on the method. See Appendix A-1 for detailed
variable definitions.                                37
                           Figure A19: Climate attitudes by treatment group

        Control           Climate Impacts                   Climate Policies     Both Treatments

               Support for Main Climate Policies
                        Ban on combustion-engine cars
                          Green infrastructure program
                        Carbon tax with cash transfers
                      Fairness of main climate policies
              Support for Other Climate Policies
Ban on combustion-engine cars w. alternatives available
                 Carbon tax with progressive transfers
                                      Tax on fossil fuels
               Ban of polluting vehicles in dense areas
                   Tax on ﬂying (raising price by 20%)
                  Subsidies for low-carbon technologies
     Mandatory and subsidized insulation of buildings
                                   Private Behaviors
               Willing to donate to reforestation cause
            Willing to adopt climate friendly behavior
     Willing to sign petition supporting climate action

                                                            20         40         60          80           100

                                                                               % Support
Note: This figure displays the mean of indicator variables by treatment group. Support for policy is an
indicator variable equal to 1 if the respondent supports the policy somewhat or strongly. Fairness of main
climate policies is an indicator variable equal 1 if on average the respondent somewhat or strongly agrees
that each climate policy is fair. Willing to donate to reforestation cause equals 1 if the respondent is willing
to donate a share of the money prize. Willing to adopt climate-friendly behavior is an indicator variable
equal 1 if on average the respondent is willing to adopt each climate-friendly behavior a lot or a great deal.
Willing to sign petition supporting climate action equals 1 if the respondent is willing to sign a petition
supporting climate action. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors.




                                                              38
Figure A20: Effects of the treatments on the support for a carbon tax depending on the use
of its revenue
             Cash transfers to constrained households : 56%        Cash transfers to the poorest households : 61%
             Cash transfers to all households : 47%                Reduction in personal income taxes : 62%
             Reduction in corporate income taxes : 45%             Tax rebates for the most aﬀected ﬁrms : 54%
             Funding environmental infrastructures : 68%           Subsidies to low-carbon tech. : 67%
             Reduction in the public deﬁcit : 54%


        Treatment
 Compared to Control




     Climate Impacts




      Climate Policies




     Both Treatments


                         -0.03               0.00             0.03                  0.05                 0.07       0.10
                                                                      Coeﬀicients


Note: The figure shows the coefficients from a regression of the indicator variables listed on the left, capturing
support for a carbon tax depending on the use of its revenue, on indicators for each treatment, controlling
for country fixed effects and socioeconomic characteristics (not shown). Control group mean support is given
in the legend. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals using robust standard errors. See Appendix A-1 for
variable definitions.




                                                              39
                                Figure A21: Reverse IV – All Sample
                                                    Climate Impacts   Climate Policies    Both Treatments
Support for Main Climate Policies




           Green infrastructure program




         Ban on combustion-engine cars




         Carbon tax with cash transfers
                                            -0.02            0.00         0.02           0.04           0.06
                                                                        Coeﬀicients
Note: This figure displays the difference, for the entire sample, between the direct correlation between
support for the policy and the treatment effect (see Figure 15) and the sum of products of the correlation
between support for the policy and each belief (see Panel A of Figure 13) in the control group and the direct
correlation between this belief and the treatment (see Figure 16). Standard errors are computed using 1,000
bootstrap iterations. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals.




                                                       40
                                                       Figure A22: Reverse IV – By country
                                                          (A) Green Infrastructure Program


             Not signiﬁcant, p-val > .05                            Nationally representative                            Online representative
                     Climate Impacts                                        Climate Policies                                    Both Treatments
                                      AUS                                                     AUS                                                     AUS

                              CAN                                                       CAN                                                 CAN

                                    DEU                                              DEU                                              DEU

                               DNK                                                DNK                                                             DNK

                              ESP                                                       ESP                                                      ESP

                                   FRA                                                     FRA                                                    FRA

                             ITA                                                        ITA                                               ITA

                                   JPN                                                       JPN                                                 JPN

                         KOR                                                    KOR                                                    KOR

                                   POL                                                     POL                                             POL

                               GBR                                               GBR                                                      GBR

                        USA                                                          USA                                                    USA

                                   BRA                                               BRA                                                           BRA

                                     CHN                                             CHN                                                           CHN

                                    IND                                                      IND                                                 IND

                                IDN                                                    IDN                                                             IDN

                          MEX                                                                MEX                                            MEX

                               TUR                                                   TUR                                                        TUR

                          UKR                                                           UKR                                                 UKR

                                    ZAF                                          ZAF                                                             ZAF




     -0.20   -0.10        0.00                  0.10   0.20 -0.20   -0.10        0.00                0.10   0.20 -0.20      -0.10      0.00                  0.10   0.20
                       Coeﬀicients                                            Coeﬀicients                                           Coeﬀicients
41

                                                        (B) Ban on Combustion-Engine Cars


             Not signiﬁcant, p-val > .05                            Nationally representative                            Online representative
                     Climate Impacts                                        Climate Policies                                    Both Treatments
                                          AUS                                        AUS                                                                 AUS

                              CAN                                                 CAN                                                CAN

                                   DEU                                            DEU                                                 DEU

                                     DNK                                                DNK                                                        DNK

                              ESP                                                      ESP                                                      ESP

                                      FRA                                                          FRA                                                       FRA

                               ITA                                                      ITA                                                  ITA

                                   JPN                                                         JPN                                                 JPN

                       KOR                                                     KOR                                                           KOR

                               POL                                                POL                                                  POL

                                GBR                                                    GBR                                                         GBR

                                    USA                                                    USA                                         USA

                                   BRA                                            BRA                                                                        BRA

                                           CHN                                         CHN                                                               CHN

                       IND                                                              IND                                                IND

                               IDN                                                   IDN                                                  IDN

                        MEX                                                                MEX                                                         MEX

                                         TUR                                                  TUR                                                     TUR

                        UKR                                                          UKR                                            UKR

                        ZAF                                                                ZAF                                                     ZAF




     -0.20   -0.10        0.00                  0.10   0.20 -0.20   -0.10        0.00                0.10   0.20 -0.20      -0.10      0.00                  0.10   0.20
                       Coeﬀicients                                            Coeﬀicients                                           Coeﬀicients
                                                  (C) Carbon Tax with Cash Transfers


        Not signiﬁcant, p-val > .05                            Nationally representative                            Online representative
                Climate Impacts                                        Climate Policies                                        Both Treatments
                                   AUS                                             AUS                                                           AUS

                        CAN                                                        CAN                                                CAN

                              DEU                                                   DEU                                                DEU

                              DNK                                                      DNK                                                              DNK

                        ESP                                                        ESP                                                    ESP

                                        FRA                                         FRA                                                                 FRA

                            ITA                                                        ITA                                                       ITA

                             JPN                                                         JPN                                                     JPN

                       KOR                                                         KOR                                                                 KOR

                                  POL                                              POL                                                 POL

                        GBR                                                          GBR                                                          GBR

                            USA                                                    USA                                                      USA

                            BRA                                                  BRA                                                                          BRA

                                  CHN                                                CHN                                            CHN

                            IND                                                    IND                                                     IND

                      IDN                                                           IDN                                                          IDN

                            MEX                                                     MEX                                                          MEX

                TUR                                                                 TUR                                              TUR

                              UKR                                                              UKR                                                        UKR

                       ZAF                                                   ZAF                                                          ZAF




-0.20   -0.10       0.00                 0.10   0.20   -0.20   -0.10       0.00              0.10    0.20   -0.20      -0.10       0.00                0.10         0.20
                  Coeﬀicients                                            Coeﬀicients                                             Coeﬀicients




Note: This figure displays, for each country, the difference between the direct correlation between support
for the policy and the treatment effect (see Figure 15) and the sum of products of the correlation between
support for the policy and each belief (see Panel A of Figure 13) in the control group and the direct correlation
between this belief and the treatment (see Figure 16). Standard errors are computed using 1,000 bootstrap
iterations. Bars represent 90% confidence intervals. Panel A displays the difference for support for the Green
infrastructure program, Panel B shows the difference for the ban on combustion-engine cars, and Panel C
shows the difference for the carbon tax with cash transfers.




                                                                            42
                          Figure A23: Absolute support for global climate policies.
                                                                             H
                                                                            A igh
                                                                              u
                                                                            C stra-inc
                                                                              a
                                                                            D nad lia om
                                                                              e
                                                                            Fr nm a
                                                                               an ar
                                                                            G ce k         e
                                                                              e
                                                                            It rma
                                                                              a
                                                                            Ja ly ny
                                                                               p
                                                                            Po an
                                                                            So lan
                                                                            Sputh   d
                                                                            U ain Kor
                                                                              n
                                                                            U ited a
                                                                              ni te K  e
                                                                                   d in
                                                                             M Sta do
                                                                            B idd tes m
                                                                              r         g
                                                                            C azil le-
                                                                              h
                                                                            In ina nco
                                                                               di
                                                                            In a      i    m e
                                                                               d
                                                                            M on
                                                                               ex esi
                                                                            So ic a o
                                                                            Tuuth
                                                                            U rke Afr
                                                                              kr y ic
                                                                                 ai      a
                                                                                   ne

Level at which climate policies are needed (Multiple choice question)
   Global                                                                    85 78 87 81 85 88 92 94 88 86 88 88 70   85 88 87 78 86 88 90 82 76
   Federal/Continental                                                       46 67 58 48 37 48 30   40    40 47 52    48 48 61 67 50 41 42 41 24
   State/National                                                            44 54 50 45 27 45 28 50 38 65 34 53 41   42 36 32 59 35 26 53 58 35
   Local                                                                     36 48 45 33 26 37 24 35 37 41 30 43 35   35 35 29 50 24 28 42 41 27
Global climate policies (5-Likert scale)
  Global tax on millionaires to ﬁnance low-income countries                  64 58 67 55 65 65 72 64 62 65 75 65 53   78 73 86 80 83 78 71 73 83
  Global carbon budget (+2°C) divided in tradable country shares             62 57 64       52 69 50 59 71 71 66      74 69 78 78 77 76 71 68 76
  Global democratic assembly on climate change                               57 52 54 51 55 56 68 61 63 57 68 53 48   75 64 86 77 78 76 70 72 73
  Global tax on GHG ﬁnancing a global basic income                           34 29 32 41 34 36 34 32 31 33 42 29 34   61 54 74 72 70 68 40 44 62
Burden sharing preferences for the global carbon budget (5-Likert)
  Emission share should be in proportion to population*                      63 62 59 55 71 55 68 53 65 66 66 62 67   72 65 76 75 73 71 75 71 63
  Countries that have emitted more since 1990 should receive a lower share* 44 42 45 28 54 45 51 42 44 48 48 42 41    58 56 65 67 63 47 53 58 52
  Countries that will be hurt more by CC should receive a higher share*      44 42 39 41 51 37 42 51 53 43 48 38 41   63 58 74 72 70 54 61 60 47
  Emission share should be in proportion to current emissions                35 35 35       29 33 39 37 42 35 30      50 41 65 60 62 40 38 55 31



Note: Opposition or support is asked on a 5-point scale with “Indifferent” as the middle option. Absolute
support is the percentage of “somewhat” or “strong support”. *In Denmark, France, and the U.S., the
questions with an asterisk were asked differently. For the exact phrasing of each question, see Appendix A-6.




                                                                       43
                           Figure A24: Relative support for global climate policies.
                                                                             H
                                                                            A igh
                                                                              u
                                                                            C stra-inc
                                                                              a
                                                                            D nad lia om
                                                                              e
                                                                            Fr nm a
                                                                               an ar
                                                                            G ce k          e
                                                                              e
                                                                            It rma
                                                                              a
                                                                            Ja ly ny
                                                                               p
                                                                            Po an
                                                                            So lan
                                                                            Sputh   d
                                                                            U ain Kor
                                                                              n
                                                                            U ited a
                                                                              ni te K   e
                                                                                   d in
                                                                             M Sta do
                                                                            B idd tes m
                                                                              r          g
                                                                            C azil le-
                                                                              h
                                                                            In ina nco
                                                                               di
                                                                            In a       i    m e
                                                                               d
                                                                            M on
                                                                               ex esi
                                                                            So ic a o
                                                                            Tuuth
                                                                            U rke Afr
                                                                              kr y ic
                                                                                 ai       a
                                                                                   ne

Level at which climate policies are needed (Multiple choice question)
   Global                                                                    85 78 87 81 85 88 92 94 88 86 88 88 70   85 88 87 78 86 88 90 82 76
   Federal/Continental                                                       46 67 58 48 37 48 30   40    40 47 52    48 48 61 67 50 41 42 41 24
   State/National                                                            44 54 50 45 27 45 28 50 38 65 34 53 41   42 36 32 59 35 26 53 58 35
   Local                                                                     36 48 45 33 26 37 24 35 37 41 30 43 35   35 35 29 50 24 28 42 41 27
Global climate policies (5-Likert scale)
  Global carbon budget (+2°C) divided in tradable country shares             84 79 85       74 89 82 81 92 85 90      90 82 95 89 95 92 90 88 88
  Global tax on millionaires to ﬁnance low-income countries                  82 74 84 72 86 83 90 88 80 89 86 85 73   92 86 98 92 97 93 89 87 94
  Global democratic assembly on climate change                               81 74 80 77 82 76 90 88 85 85 88 77 71   91 84 97 88 96 94 89 87 93
  Global tax on GHG ﬁnancing a global basic income                           49 41 44 57 51 52 55 53 47 53 50 40 49   79 76 92 88 91 83 54 60 77
Burden sharing preferences for the global carbon budget (5-Likert)
  Emission share should be in proportion to population*                      88 87 87 90 90 85 91 84 89 91 89 88 87   91 84 96 91 94 92 93 90 85
  Countries that have emitted more since 1990 should receive a lower share* 72 69 73 57 80 76 80 69 71 75 74 72 68    82 79 92 86 91 75 73 81 74
  Countries that will be hurt more by CC should receive a higher share*      71 71 68 62 74 67 71 84 80 72 75 68 59   84 78 95 90 91 77 81 83 69
  Emission share should be in proportion to current emissions                54 55 53       47 46 63 57 68 49 48      69 53 86 77 88 56 55 77 46



Note: Opposition or support is asked on a 5-point scale with “Indifferent” as the middle option. Absolute
support is the percentage of “somewhat” or “strong support”, excluding “Indifferent” answers. *In Denmark,
France, and the U.S., the questions with an asterisk were asked differently. For the exact phrasing of each
question, see Appendix A-6.




                                                                       44
A-4        Additional tables

                    Table A1: Sample representativeness – High-income countries 1
                                             Australia             Canada                Denmark                France
                                        Population   Sample   Population   Sample   Population   Sample   Population   Sample
            Sample size                       NA     1,978          NA     2,022          NA     2,013          NA     2,006
            Man                               0.49   0.56           0.49   0.45           0.50   0.50           0.48 0.44
            18-24 years old                   0.11 0.10             0.10 0.09             0.11 0.09             0.12 0.10
            25-34 years old                   0.19 0.19             0.17 0.14             0.16 0.12             0.15 0.15
            35-49 years old                   0.26 0.27             0.24 0.25             0.23 0.25             0.24 0.25
            More than 50 years old            0.44 0.44             0.48 0.52             0.50 0.54             0.49 0.50
            Income Q1                         0.25 0.22             0.25 0.25             0.26 0.29             0.25 0.31
            Income Q2                         0.25 0.21             0.25 0.28             0.23 0.25             0.25 0.31
            Income Q3                         0.25 0.33             0.25 0.28             0.28 0.26             0.25 0.23
            Income Q4                         0.25 0.24             0.25 0.20             0.22 0.19             0.25 0.14
            Region 1                          0.33   0.30           0.07   0.06           0.32   0.30           0.19 0.19
            Region 2                          0.20   0.23           0.06   0.07           0.23   0.23           0.22 0.24
            Region 3                          0.07   0.10           0.26   0.23           0.10   0.10           0.20 0.22
            Region 4                          0.28   0.28           0.39   0.39           0.14   0.16           0.25 0.20
            Region 5                          0.11   0.09           0.23   0.24           0.21   0.21            NA NA
            Urban                             0.72   0.76           0.83   0.89           0.53   0.53           0.60   0.59
            College education (25-64)         0.49   0.46           0.60   0.56           0.42   0.44           0.40   0.42
            Vote: Candidate/Party 1           0.41 0.41             0.34 0.27             0.26 0.28             0.24 0.12
            Vote: Candidate/Party 2           0.33 0.36             0.33 0.36             0.23 0.17             0.21 0.21
            Vote: Candidate/Party 3            NA NA                0.18 0.18              NA NA                0.20 0.29
            Vote: Candidate/Party 4            NA NA                 NA NA                 NA NA                0.20 0.14
            Unemployment rate (15-64)         0.07   0.12           0.10   0.12           0.06   0.12           0.08   0.10
            Home ownership rate               0.66   0.59           0.66   0.59           0.59   0.59           0.65   0.56


Note: This table displays summary statistics of the samples alongside nationally representative statistics.
For College education (25-64), the sample statistics are provided for respondents aged between 25 and 64
years old. For the Vote variables, the sample statistics include the share of respondents who indicated
voted for a party/candidate classified in each category, among respondents who indicated having voted. For
Unemployment rate (15-64), the sample statistics include the share of respondents aged between 15 and
64 years old who indicated being “Unemployed (searching for a job)”, (‘Unemployed (searching for a job),”
“Full-time employed,” “Part-time employed,” or “Self-employed ”). Detailed sources for each variable and
country, as well as the definitions of regions, college education, urban, and voting categories are available in
Appendix A-11.




                                                                  45
                   Table A2: Sample representativeness – High-income countries 2
                                            Germany                 Italy                  Japan                 Poland
                                       Population   Sample   Population     Sample   Population   Sample   Population   Sample
           Sample size                       NA     2,006          NA       2,088          NA     1,990          NA     2,053
           Man                               0.49   0.48           0.48     0.49           0.48   0.54           0.48 0.44
           18-24 years old                   0.09 0.06             0.08 0.09               0.08 0.08             0.09 0.09
           25-34 years old                   0.15 0.16             0.12 0.13               0.12 0.13             0.17 0.18
           35-49 years old                   0.22 0.22             0.24 0.26               0.24 0.27             0.28 0.30
           More than 50 years old            0.54 0.56             0.56 0.52               0.56 0.53             0.46 0.42
           Income Q1                         0.25 0.25             0.25 0.28               0.25 0.27             0.25 0.22
           Income Q2                         0.25 0.25             0.25 0.28               0.25 0.27             0.25 0.27
           Income Q3                         0.25 0.23             0.25 0.23               0.25 0.27             0.25 0.27
           Income Q4                         0.25 0.27             0.25 0.21               0.25 0.19             0.25 0.25
           Region 1                          0.10   0.10           0.20     0.20           0.17   0.18           0.12   0.10
           Region 2                          0.15   0.16           0.11     0.12           0.18   0.19           0.14   0.13
           Region 3                          0.18   0.16           0.19     0.17           0.35   0.38           0.23   0.21
           Region 4                          0.29   0.27           0.27     0.30           0.11   0.10           0.29   0.33
           Region 5                          0.28   0.31           0.23     0.21           0.20   0.16           0.22   0.23
           Urban                             0.80   0.76           0.83     0.89           0.70   0.76           0.57   0.66
           College education (25-64)         0.31   0.32           0.29     0.38           0.53   0.59           0.33   0.46
           Vote: Candidate/Party 1           0.37 0.28             0.36 0.20               0.35 0.44             0.44   0.31
           Vote: Candidate/Party 2           0.25 0.20             0.20 0.27               0.20 0.16             0.30   0.39
           Vote: Candidate/Party 3            NA NA                0.19 0.17               0.14 0.10             0.14   0.12
           Vote: Candidate/Party 4            NA NA                 NA NA                   NA NA                 NA    NA
           Unemployment rate (15-64)         0.04   0.07           0.09     0.17           0.03   0.05           0.03   0.09
           Home ownership rate               0.49   0.39           0.74     0.75           0.55   0.72           0.87   0.71


Note: This table displays summary statistics of the samples alongside nationally representative statistics.
See notes to Table A1. Detailed sources for each variable and country, as well as the definitions of regions,
college education, urban, and voting categories are available in Appendix A-11.




                                                                 46
                    Table A3: Sample representativeness – High-income countries 3
                                           South Korea              Spain                   U.K.                   U.S.
                                        Population   Sample   Population    Sample   Population    Sample   Population    Sample
            Sample size                       NA     1,932          NA      2,268          NA      2,025          NA      2,218
            Man                               0.50   0.56           0.49    0.49           0.50    0.52           0.49 0.47
            18-24 years old                   0.10 0.09             0.08 0.10              0.10 0.09              0.12 0.12
            25-34 years old                   0.16 0.19             0.12 0.14              0.17 0.19              0.18 0.18
            35-49 years old                   0.27 0.31             0.28 0.29              0.24 0.24              0.24 0.25
            More than 50 years old            0.47 0.40             0.51 0.48              0.49 0.48              0.46 0.45
            Income Q1                         0.25 0.27             0.25 0.25              0.25 0.27              0.20 0.26
            Income Q2                         0.25 0.28             0.25 0.27              0.25 0.25              0.24 0.28
            Income Q3                         0.25 0.32             0.25 0.23              0.25 0.21              0.24 0.26
            Income Q4                         0.25 0.13             0.25 0.25              0.25 0.27              0.31 0.20
            Region 1                          0.25   0.24           0.19    0.21           0.21 0.21              0.21 0.20
            Region 2                          0.34   0.37           0.30    0.28           0.13 0.13              0.17 0.18
            Region 3                          0.19   0.23           0.11    0.10           0.24 0.23              0.38 0.39
            Region 4                          0.22   0.17           0.13    0.15           0.11 0.10              0.24 0.23
            Region 5                           NA    NA             0.28    0.26           0.31 0.33               NA NA
            Urban                             0.92   0.95           0.70    0.75           0.82    0.84           0.73    0.72
            College education (25-64)         0.51   0.74           0.40    0.57           0.49    0.51           0.61    0.60
            Vote: Candidate/Party 1           0.41 0.59             0.28 0.30              0.44 0.45              0.51 0.57
            Vote: Candidate/Party 2           0.24 0.12             0.21 0.16              0.32 0.28              0.47 0.36
            Vote: Candidate/Party 3           0.21 0.11             0.15 0.09              0.12 0.11               NA NA
            Vote: Candidate/Party 4            NA NA                 NA NA                  NA NA                  NA NA
            Unemployment rate (15-64)         0.04   0.08           0.16    0.14           0.05    0.09           0.08    0.13
            Home ownership rate               0.57   0.65           0.76    0.71           0.63    0.64           0.66    0.67


Note: This table displays summary statistics of the samples alongside nationally representative statistics.
See notes to Table A1. For College education (25-64) in the U.S., the sample statistics is provided for all
respondents and not only respondents aged between 25 and 64 years old. Detailed sources for each variable
and country, as well as the definitions of regions, college education, urban, and voting categories are available
in Appendix A-11.




                                                                  47
                 Table A4: Sample representativeness – Middle-income countries 1
                                             Brazil                  China                   India                 Indonesia
                                       Population     Sample   Population    Sample   Population     Sample   Population   Sample
           Sample size                       NA       1,860          NA      1,717          NA       2,472          NA     2,488
           Man                               0.49     0.45           0.51    0.54           0.51     0.58           0.50 0.52
           18-24 years old                   0.15 0.16               0.10 0.12              0.18 0.23               0.17 0.19
           25-34 years old                   0.22 0.23               0.20 0.26              0.24 0.27               0.23 0.26
           35-49 years old                   0.30 0.32               0.28 0.35              0.29 0.24               0.31 0.31
           More than 50 years old            0.34 0.29               0.42 0.27              0.28 0.26               0.29 0.24
           Income Q1                         0.25 0.24               0.25 0.13              0.25 0.27               0.25 0.28
           Income Q2                         0.25 0.30               0.25 0.25              0.25 0.24               0.25 0.24
           Income Q3                         0.25 0.24               0.25 0.29              0.25 0.25               0.25 0.23
           Income Q4                         0.25 0.22               0.25 0.32              0.25 0.24               0.25 0.25
           Region 1                          0.08     0.07           0.29    0.31           0.27     0.20           0.08   0.07
           Region 2                          0.09     0.04           0.12    0.17           0.26     0.25           0.30   0.31
           Region 3                          0.27     0.28           0.08    0.05           0.13     0.15           0.13   0.11
           Region 4                          0.14     0.15           0.29    0.23           0.20     0.24           0.21   0.20
           Region 5                          0.42     0.45           0.22    0.24           0.14     0.17           0.27   0.31
           Urban                             0.69     0.77           0.63    0.53           0.36     0.46           0.57   0.62
           Master or higher (25-64)          0.01     0.19           0.01    0.03           0.03     0.30           0.07   0.04
           Vote: Candidate/Party 1           0.46 0.47               NA NA                  0.37 0.59               0.19   0.42
           Vote: Candidate/Party 2           0.29 0.22               NA NA                  0.20 0.16               0.13   0.18
           Vote: Candidate/Party 3            NA NA                  NA NA                   NA NA                  0.12   0.05
           Vote: Candidate/Party 4            NA NA                  NA NA                   NA NA                   NA    NA
           Unemployment rate (15-64)         0.14     0.11           0.03    0.01           0.09     0.04           0.06   0.05
           Home ownership rate               0.72     0.72           0.90    0.83           0.87     0.79           0.84   0.89


Note: This table displays summary statistics of the samples alongside nationally representative statistics.
See notes to Table A1. Detailed sources for each variable and country, as well as the definitions of regions,
education, urban, and voting categories are available in Appendix A-11.




                                                                   48
                 Table A5: Sample representativeness – Middle-income countries 2
                                             Mexico                Turkey             South Africa            Ukraine
                                       Population   Sample   Population   Sample   Population   Sample   Population   Sample
           Sample size                       NA     2,045          NA     1,932          NA     2,003          NA     1,564
           Man                               0.48   0.49           0.49   0.43           0.49   0.46           0.45 0.61
           18-24 years old                   0.18 0.18             0.16 0.18             0.21 0.21             0.08 0.12
           25-34 years old                   0.23 0.24             0.21 0.24             0.28 0.29             0.18 0.25
           35-49 years old                   0.30 0.31             0.30 0.34             0.28 0.28             0.28 0.40
           More than 50 years old            0.29 0.27             0.33 0.24             0.22 0.22             0.46 0.24
           Income Q1                         0.25 0.26             0.25 0.14             0.25 0.16             0.25 0.17
           Income Q2                         0.25 0.27             0.25 0.28             0.25 0.24             0.25 0.24
           Income Q3                         0.25 0.24             0.25 0.28             0.25 0.32             0.25 0.24
           Income Q4                         0.25 0.22             0.25 0.30             0.25 0.27             0.25 0.36
           Region 1                          0.33   0.38           0.25   0.28           0.12   0.09           0.31 0.37
           Region 2                          0.22   0.18           0.18   0.12           0.24   0.29           0.21 0.17
           Region 3                          0.10   0.10           0.30   0.34           0.18   0.17           0.22 0.26
           Region 4                          0.13   0.12           0.26   0.26           0.33   0.26           0.25 0.20
           Region 5                          0.23   0.22            NA    NA             0.13   0.18            NA NA
           Urban                             0.64   0.81           0.87   0.96           0.49   0.63           0.70   0.88
           Master or higher (25-64)          0.02   0.08           0.02   0.09           0.01   0.08           0.27   0.25
           Vote: Candidate/Party 1           0.36 0.39             0.43 0.42             0.58 0.35             0.31 0.60
           Vote: Candidate/Party 2           0.19 0.20             0.23 0.28             0.21 0.32             0.16 0.19
           Vote: Candidate/Party 3           0.18 0.10              NA NA                 NA NA                 NA NA
           Vote: Candidate/Party 4            NA NA                 NA NA                 NA NA                 NA NA
           Unemployment rate (15-64)         0.04   0.07           0.13   0.12           0.29   0.16           0.10   0.10
           Home ownership rate               0.80   0.70           0.58   0.63           0.70   0.47           0.93   0.72


Note: This table displays summary statistics of the samples alongside nationally representative statistics.
For Master or higher (25-64) in Ukraine, the sample statistics is provided for all respondents and not only
respondents aged between 25 and 64 years old. See notes to Table A1. Detailed sources for each variable
and country, as well as the definitions of regions, education, urban, and voting categories are available in
Appendix A-11.




                                                                 49
                Table A6: Correlation between knowledge and individual characteristics
                                                                         Knowledge of climate change
                                                  Knowledge
                                                               Footprint    Fundamentals    Greenhouse gases   Impacts
                                                    index
                                                      (1)         (2)             (3)              (4)            (5)
                    Control group mean               -0.074     -0.034          -0.037            -0.119         0.002


                      Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
                    Gender: Woman                  −0.143∗∗∗   −0.100∗∗∗       −0.002           −0.132∗∗∗      −0.123∗∗∗
                                                    (0.011)     (0.011)        (0.012)           (0.012)        (0.012)
                    Lives with child(ren) under 14 −0.129∗∗∗   −0.110∗∗∗      −0.025∗           −0.095∗∗∗      −0.082∗∗∗
                                                    (0.013)     (0.013)        (0.013)           (0.014)        (0.014)
                    Age: 25 - 34                   −0.096∗∗∗    −0.015        −0.110∗∗∗         −0.085∗∗∗      −0.052∗∗
                                                    (0.021)     (0.021)        (0.020)           (0.024)        (0.022)
                    Age: 35 - 49                   −0.070∗∗∗     0.014        −0.108∗∗∗         −0.111∗∗∗        0.006
                                                    (0.020)     (0.019)        (0.019)           (0.022)        (0.021)
                    Age: 50 or older                0.091∗∗∗   0.167∗∗∗       −0.081∗∗∗          −0.014        0.111∗∗∗
                                                    (0.018)     (0.018)        (0.018)           (0.020)        (0.019)
                    Household income: Q2            0.100∗∗∗   0.046∗∗∗       0.050∗∗∗           0.096∗∗∗      0.065∗∗∗
                                                    (0.015)     (0.015)        (0.016)           (0.017)        (0.016)
                    Household income: Q3            0.125∗∗∗   0.083∗∗∗       0.051∗∗∗           0.106∗∗∗      0.073∗∗∗
                                                    (0.016)     (0.016)        (0.017)           (0.017)        (0.017)
                    Household income: Q4            0.193∗∗∗   0.140∗∗∗       0.063∗∗∗           0.139∗∗∗      0.139∗∗∗
                                                    (0.017)     (0.017)        (0.018)           (0.019)        (0.018)
                    Highest diploma: College       0.402∗∗∗    0.234∗∗∗       0.210∗∗∗           0.287∗∗∗      0.291∗∗∗
                                                    (0.022)     (0.022)        (0.022)           (0.024)        (0.023)
                    Highest diploma: High school   0.230∗∗∗    0.105∗∗∗       0.134∗∗∗           0.183∗∗∗      0.175∗∗∗
                                                    (0.021)     (0.022)        (0.021)           (0.024)        (0.023)
                    Economic Leaning: Very Left     −0.040     −0.068∗∗∗      0.082∗∗∗           −0.022        −0.075∗∗∗
                                                    (0.027)     (0.026)        (0.028)           (0.029)        (0.026)
                    Economic Leaning: Center       −0.225∗∗∗   −0.176∗∗∗      −0.181∗∗∗         −0.091∗∗∗      −0.103∗∗∗
                                                    (0.016)     (0.016)        (0.017)           (0.018)        (0.016)
                    Economic Leaning: Right        −0.306∗∗∗   −0.189∗∗∗      −0.331∗∗∗         −0.103∗∗∗      −0.150∗∗∗
                                                    (0.019)     (0.019)        (0.020)           (0.020)        (0.020)
                    Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.436∗∗∗   −0.310∗∗∗      −0.298∗∗∗         −0.167∗∗∗      −0.309∗∗∗
                                                    (0.021)     (0.022)        (0.024)           (0.024)        (0.024)
                    Treatment: Climate Impacts     0.142∗∗∗    0.058∗∗∗       0.105∗∗∗           0.172∗∗∗       0.034∗∗
                                                    (0.015)     (0.015)        (0.016)           (0.017)        (0.016)
                    Treatment: Climate Policies    0.040∗∗∗      0.024         −0.007            0.127∗∗∗      −0.048∗∗∗
                                                    (0.015)     (0.015)        (0.016)           (0.017)        (0.016)
50                  Treatment: Both                 0.102∗∗∗    0.030∗∗       0.050∗∗∗           0.190∗∗∗       −0.004
                                                    (0.015)     (0.015)        (0.016)           (0.017)        (0.016)



                      Panel B: Energy usage indicators
                    Agglomeration size: Small       0.002        0.017         −0.014           −0.034∗          0.031
                                                   (0.018)      (0.018)        (0.019)           (0.019)        (0.020)
                    Agglomeration size: Medium    0.061∗∗∗      0.050∗∗        0.037∗              0.018        0.044∗∗
                                                   (0.020)      (0.020)        (0.021)           (0.021)        (0.021)
                    Agglomeration size: Large     0.071∗∗∗     0.056∗∗∗       0.056∗∗∗             0.005       0.058∗∗∗
                                                   (0.019)      (0.019)        (0.020)           (0.020)        (0.020)
                    Public transport available      0.020      −0.035∗∗∗      0.036∗∗∗           0.025∗∗       0.045∗∗∗
                                                   (0.012)      (0.012)        (0.013)           (0.013)        (0.013)
                    Uses car                       0.060∗∗∗      0.018         0.038∗∗           0.045∗∗∗      0.059∗∗∗
                                                   (0.015)      (0.015)        (0.015)           (0.016)        (0.016)
                    High gas expenses             −0.075∗∗∗    −0.060∗∗∗      −0.027∗∗          −0.043∗∗∗      −0.055∗∗∗
                                                   (0.012)      (0.012)        (0.013)           (0.013)        (0.013)
                    High heating expenses         −0.022∗      −0.031∗∗        0.0003             0.0004        −0.017
                                                   (0.013)      (0.012)        (0.014)           (0.013)        (0.013)
                    Flies more than once a year   0.038∗∗∗       0.016        0.054∗∗∗             0.001        0.031∗∗
                                                   (0.013)      (0.013)        (0.013)           (0.014)        (0.013)
                    Works in polluting sector     −0.149∗∗∗    −0.103∗∗∗      −0.055∗∗∗         −0.099∗∗∗      −0.116∗∗∗
                                                   (0.016)      (0.016)        (0.016)           (0.018)        (0.017)
                    Eats beef/meat weekly or more −0.045∗∗∗    −0.058∗∗∗      −0.068∗∗∗          0.043∗∗∗       −0.020
                                                   (0.012)      (0.012)        (0.013)           (0.013)        (0.013)
                    Owner or landlord               0.007       −0.014         −0.012             0.028∗        0.024∗
                                                   (0.013)      (0.013)        (0.014)           (0.015)        (0.014)
                    Observations                    40,680      40,680          40,680            40,680        40,680
                    R2                              0.183        0.182          0.050             0.078         0.074

     Note: The table shows the results of regressions of knowledge indices on socioeconomic indicators (Panel
     A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B), controlling for country fixed effects. Panel B also controls for
     socioeconomic indicators, but the coefficients are not displayed. The dependent variable in column 1 is the
     Knowledge index, whose components are the indices in the remaining columns. Robust standard errors are
     in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.
  Table A7: Correlation between Knowledge index and individual characteristics in high-
  income countries
                                                                                             Knowledge Index
                                 AUS         CAN         DEU         DNK         ESP         FRA         GBR         ITA         JPN         KOR         POL         USA
                                  (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)         (9)        (10)        (11)        (12)
Control group mean               -0.044     -0.088      -0.044       0.009      -0.084      -0.146       0.001      -0.019       0.002      -0.067      -0.035       0.023


  Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
Gender: Woman                   −0.040     −0.199∗∗∗   −0.148∗∗∗   −0.158∗∗∗   −0.258∗∗∗   −0.323∗∗∗    −0.031     −0.173∗∗∗   −0.262∗∗∗    −0.086     −0.190∗∗∗   −0.103∗∗
                                (0.056)     (0.046)     (0.046)     (0.050)     (0.044)     (0.055)     (0.046)     (0.045)     (0.049)     (0.056)     (0.047)     (0.050)
Lives with child(ren) under 14 −0.202∗∗∗   −0.209∗∗∗   −0.274∗∗∗    −0.095     −0.097∗     −0.223∗∗∗   −0.270∗∗∗   −0.210∗∗∗    −0.065     −0.127∗      −0.068     −0.253∗∗∗
                                (0.065)     (0.051)     (0.067)     (0.059)     (0.052)     (0.068)     (0.059)     (0.059)     (0.067)     (0.069)     (0.052)     (0.053)
Age: 25 - 34                   −0.221∗∗     −0.137     −0.337∗∗∗    −0.013     −0.169∗      −0.143      −0.033     −0.184∗       0.144     −0.388∗∗∗   −0.222∗∗      0.029
                                (0.088)     (0.103)     (0.108)     (0.116)     (0.090)     (0.113)     (0.083)     (0.097)     (0.110)     (0.108)     (0.101)     (0.098)
Age: 35 - 49                   −0.209∗∗     −0.069      −0.169      −0.052      −0.080      −0.111       0.113     −0.190∗∗      0.080     −0.408∗∗∗    −0.065      −0.026
                                (0.087)     (0.096)     (0.104)     (0.113)     (0.083)     (0.106)     (0.083)     (0.091)     (0.101)     (0.098)     (0.097)     (0.094)
Age: 50 or older                 0.018       0.088       0.017      0.244∗∗      0.137∗     −0.038      0.309∗∗∗    −0.113       0.097     −0.435∗∗∗     0.089     0.363∗∗∗
                                (0.079)     (0.089)     (0.097)     (0.108)     (0.076)     (0.098)     (0.078)     (0.082)     (0.097)     (0.097)     (0.090)     (0.091)
Household income: Q2            0.113∗∗     0.186∗∗∗    −0.018      −0.086      0.148∗∗      0.041       0.099∗    0.215∗∗∗      0.017      0.112∗     0.207∗∗∗      0.012
                                (0.054)     (0.065)     (0.061)     (0.071)     (0.061)     (0.064)     (0.057)     (0.063)     (0.065)     (0.066)     (0.068)     (0.064)
Household income: Q3             0.093      0.287∗∗∗     0.053       0.052     0.228∗∗∗      0.085     0.212∗∗∗    0.284∗∗∗     −0.035       0.094     0.276∗∗∗     0.123∗
                                (0.067)     (0.066)     (0.066)     (0.066)     (0.065)     (0.074)     (0.062)     (0.065)     (0.065)     (0.066)     (0.066)     (0.070)
Household income: Q4            0.298∗∗∗    0.469∗∗∗    0.122∗      0.135∗     0.182∗∗∗     −0.026      0.245∗∗∗   0.288∗∗∗      0.072       0.054     0.377∗∗∗     0.141∗
                                (0.093)     (0.074)     (0.065)     (0.076)     (0.066)     (0.092)     (0.061)     (0.069)     (0.068)     (0.092)     (0.072)     (0.077)
Highest diploma: College        0.285∗∗∗     0.118     0.667∗∗∗    0.590∗∗∗    0.372∗∗∗    0.434∗∗∗    0.250∗∗∗    0.451∗∗∗     0.650∗∗∗   0.712∗∗∗     0.444∗∗     0.313∗∗
                                (0.098)     (0.074)     (0.082)     (0.093)     (0.072)     (0.086)     (0.069)     (0.076)     (0.218)     (0.190)     (0.193)     (0.131)
Highest diploma: High school     0.067       0.038     0.429∗∗∗    0.313∗∗∗     0.242∗∗∗     0.101     0.182∗∗∗     0.173∗∗     0.503∗∗     0.399∗∗      0.266      0.231∗
                                (0.092)     (0.071)     (0.073)     (0.088)     (0.072)     (0.075)     (0.069)     (0.071)     (0.218)     (0.196)     (0.190)     (0.128)
Economic Leaning: Very Left     −0.038      −0.039      −0.184      0.247∗       0.138∗    −0.707∗∗     −0.160       0.087      −0.176      −0.181     −0.212∗∗     −0.062
                                (0.140)     (0.100)     (0.117)     (0.127)     (0.072)     (0.301)     (0.103)     (0.081)     (0.148)     (0.189)     (0.097)     (0.103)
Economic Leaning: Center       −0.350∗∗∗   −0.373∗∗∗   −0.392∗∗∗   −0.109∗     −0.222∗∗∗     0.032     −0.508∗∗∗   −0.170∗∗∗   −0.307∗∗∗   −0.283∗∗∗   −0.216∗∗∗   −0.241∗∗∗
                                (0.077)     (0.065)     (0.056)     (0.057)     (0.052)     (0.074)     (0.055)     (0.059)     (0.067)     (0.082)     (0.060)     (0.072)
Economic Leaning: Right        −0.656∗∗∗   −0.554∗∗∗   −0.565∗∗∗   −0.334∗∗∗   −0.428∗∗∗   −0.221∗∗∗   −0.566∗∗∗   −0.188∗∗∗   −0.268∗∗∗   −0.230∗∗    −0.268∗∗∗   −0.567∗∗∗
                                (0.092)     (0.079)     (0.078)     (0.065)     (0.068)     (0.078)     (0.067)     (0.065)     (0.078)     (0.094)     (0.081)     (0.082)
Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.687∗∗∗   −0.880∗∗∗   −0.683∗∗∗   −0.617∗∗∗   −0.547∗∗∗   −0.421∗∗∗   −0.999∗∗∗   −0.346∗∗∗   −0.432∗∗∗   −0.362∗∗∗   −0.519∗∗∗   −0.798∗∗∗
                                (0.101)     (0.108)     (0.122)     (0.166)     (0.086)     (0.110)     (0.097)     (0.091)     (0.116)     (0.132)     (0.084)     (0.083)
Treatment: Climate Impacts       0.113       0.121∗    0.152∗∗∗      0.036       0.097     0.213∗∗∗      0.090      0.139∗∗      0.106∗     0.147∗      0.129∗∗      0.054
                                (0.075)     (0.063)     (0.058)     (0.060)     (0.063)     (0.072)     (0.058)     (0.061)     (0.061)     (0.076)     (0.061)     (0.066)
Treatment: Climate Policies      0.001       0.118∗     −0.026      −0.073      0.142∗∗      0.029       0.015      −0.001      −0.067       0.021       0.058      −0.042
                                (0.070)     (0.061)     (0.060)     (0.061)     (0.061)     (0.075)     (0.058)     (0.064)     (0.066)     (0.079)     (0.062)     (0.063)
Treatment: Both                  0.032      0.143∗∗      0.051       0.016     0.157∗∗∗    0.183∗∗∗     −0.012       0.080      −0.035       0.070       0.099      −0.012
                                (0.076)     (0.061)     (0.059)     (0.063)     (0.059)     (0.068)     (0.060)     (0.062)     (0.062)     (0.073)     (0.062)     (0.067)



  Panel B: Energy usage indicators
Agglomeration size: Small      0.133         0.071      0.116∗       0.123∗      0.044     −0.110∗       0.059     −0.032        0.016       0.166      0.069        0.041
                              (0.123)       (0.082)     (0.069)     (0.069)     (0.097)    (0.066)      (0.067)    (0.069)      (0.180)     (0.187)    (0.069)      (0.073)
Agglomeration size: Medium     0.145        0.151∗      0.142∗      −0.022       0.075     −0.092       0.192∗∗      0.037       0.094       0.307      0.121∗       0.149∗
                              (0.131)       (0.081)     (0.075)     (0.071)     (0.098)    (0.084)      (0.076)    (0.082)      (0.179)     (0.192)    (0.070)      (0.084)
Agglomeration size: Large     0.258∗∗        0.075      0.152∗∗      0.081       0.079     −0.120        0.082     −0.039        0.039       0.265     0.127∗        0.113
                              (0.121)       (0.080)     (0.075)     (0.079)     (0.096)    (0.109)      (0.074)    (0.088)      (0.177)     (0.181)    (0.074)      (0.077)
Public transport available     0.018        −0.074       0.063       0.034      −0.034      0.100       −0.005     −0.011        0.053       0.110∗     0.009      −0.196∗∗∗
                              (0.055)       (0.048)     (0.048)     (0.052)     (0.046)    (0.063)      (0.045)    (0.058)      (0.051)     (0.060)    (0.049)      (0.050)
Uses car                      0.214∗∗        0.028     0.160∗∗∗     −0.081      −0.009      0.067        0.067      0.160∗∗     −0.044      0.221∗∗∗   −0.082       0.270∗∗∗
                              (0.091)       (0.067)     (0.061)     (0.055)     (0.056)    (0.086)      (0.059)    (0.075)      (0.066)     (0.069)    (0.062)      (0.083)
High gas expenses             −0.094       −0.134∗∗∗   −0.233∗∗∗    −0.072       0.036     −0.149∗∗    −0.113∗∗      0.006      −0.070      −0.056     −0.069      −0.168∗∗∗
                              (0.060)       (0.049)     (0.049)     (0.050)     (0.047)    (0.058)      (0.052)    (0.048)      (0.059)     (0.061)    (0.050)      (0.050)
High heating expenses         −0.060        0.107∗∗     −0.007      −0.008     −0.0001     −0.053      −0.092∗∗      0.067      −0.005       0.007     0.117∗∗     −0.247∗∗∗
                              (0.058)       (0.047)     (0.047)     (0.049)     (0.047)    (0.054)      (0.045)    (0.049)      (0.051)     (0.056)    (0.050)      (0.050)
Flies more than once a year   0.169∗∗∗       0.050      −0.006      0.131∗∗∗     0.040      0.013       −0.079      0.082∗      −0.012       0.078      0.080        0.092∗
                              (0.062)       (0.052)     (0.050)     (0.048)     (0.047)    (0.066)      (0.050)    (0.049)      (0.055)     (0.062)    (0.055)      (0.054)
Works in polluting sector     −0.094       −0.251∗∗∗   −0.162∗∗    −0.369∗∗∗   −0.155∗∗     0.061      −0.168∗∗    −0.041        0.034     −0.227∗∗∗   −0.120∗     −0.202∗∗
                              (0.081)       (0.078)     (0.071)     (0.087)     (0.072)    (0.074)      (0.082)    (0.084)      (0.072)     (0.081)    (0.062)      (0.082)
Eats beef/meat weekly or more −0.065        −0.062       0.045     −0.155∗∗∗   −0.156∗∗∗   −0.059      −0.146∗∗∗   −0.118∗∗      0.063       0.049     −0.106       0.132∗∗∗
                              (0.056)       (0.045)     (0.050)     (0.047)     (0.043)    (0.052)      (0.046)    (0.047)      (0.049)     (0.065)    (0.069)      (0.048)
Owner or landlord              0.006        −0.025       0.076      −0.006      −0.044     −0.058       0.163∗∗∗   −0.045        0.070      −0.011      0.024      −0.139∗∗
                              (0.063)       (0.058)     (0.051)     (0.054)     (0.053)    (0.059)      (0.054)    (0.059)      (0.058)     (0.061)    (0.058)      (0.058)
Observations                     1,978       2,022       2,006       2,013       2,268       2,006       2,025       2,088       1,990       1,932       2,053       2,218
R2                               0.136       0.140       0.156       0.150       0.124       0.137       0.156       0.095       0.060       0.093       0.109       0.180

  Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the Knowledge index on socioeconomic indicators (Panel
  A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B). Panel B also controls for socioeconomic indicators, but the
  coefficients are not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See
  Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.


                                                                                    51
Table A8: Correlation between Knowledge index and individual characteristics in middle-
income countries
                                                                                   Knowledge Index
                                               BRA         CHN         IDN         IND         MEX         TUR         UKR         ZAF
                                                (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)
             Control group mean               -0.163      -0.105      -0.121      -0.068      -0.099      -0.056      -0.187      -0.088


               Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
             Gender: Woman                  −0.159∗∗     −0.119∗     −0.107∗∗    −0.186∗∗∗   −0.203∗∗∗   −0.117∗     −0.113∗     −0.191∗∗∗
                                            (0.062)       (0.064)     (0.050)     (0.057)     (0.064)     (0.065)    (0.063)      (0.057)
             Lives with child(ren) under 14 −0.138∗∗      −0.035      −0.042     −0.110∗     −0.189∗∗∗     0.083     −0.100      −0.246∗∗∗
                                            (0.068)       (0.073)     (0.069)     (0.065)     (0.072)     (0.071)    (0.064)      (0.062)
             Age: 25 - 34                   −0.224∗∗       0.105      −0.053      −0.056       0.158     −0.254∗∗∗    0.241∗     −0.332∗∗∗
                                            (0.099)       (0.115)     (0.078)     (0.088)     (0.099)     (0.098)    (0.140)      (0.080)
             Age: 35 - 49                   −0.021        −0.046      −0.091      −0.064      −0.026     −0.314∗∗∗   0.342∗∗∗    −0.423∗∗∗
                                            (0.090)       (0.101)     (0.077)     (0.089)     (0.093)     (0.095)    (0.131)      (0.081)
             Age: 50 or older               −0.068         0.104      −0.046       0.083       0.034       0.108     0.388∗∗∗    −0.295∗∗∗
                                            (0.087)       (0.101)     (0.090)     (0.080)     (0.113)     (0.096)    (0.127)      (0.084)
             Household income: Q2           0.262∗∗∗     0.268∗∗∗    0.205∗∗∗     0.271∗∗∗    −0.031       0.131      0.127        0.041
                                            (0.082)       (0.093)     (0.072)     (0.085)     (0.086)     (0.098)    (0.093)      (0.087)
             Household income: Q3           0.363∗∗∗      −0.130       0.139      0.217∗∗     −0.093       0.055      0.143        0.096
                                            (0.092)       (0.108)     (0.086)     (0.094)     (0.098)     (0.109)    (0.096)      (0.090)
             Household income: Q4           0.466∗∗∗      −0.007      0.133∗      0.399∗∗∗     0.037       0.111     0.303∗∗∗     0.239∗∗∗
                                            (0.112)       (0.103)     (0.077)     (0.082)     (0.094)     (0.117)    (0.095)      (0.090)
             Highest diploma: College       0.613∗∗∗     0.520∗∗∗    0.469∗∗∗      0.226∗    0.511∗∗∗     0.224∗∗    0.505∗∗∗     0.439∗∗∗
                                            (0.175)       (0.091)     (0.112)     (0.118)     (0.100)     (0.114)    (0.169)      (0.133)
             Highest diploma: High school   0.432∗∗      0.254∗∗∗    0.369∗∗∗     0.342∗∗∗   0.424∗∗∗      0.097      0.156      0.374∗∗∗
                                            (0.172)       (0.084)     (0.109)     (0.120)     (0.093)     (0.117)    (0.171)      (0.128)
             Economic Leaning: Very Left      0.103        0.204      −0.188      0.449∗∗    −0.284∗      −0.070      0.061       0.238∗∗
                                            (0.135)       (0.126)     (0.194)     (0.195)     (0.148)     (0.136)    (0.151)      (0.117)
             Economic Leaning: Center       −0.067       −0.295∗∗∗   −0.279∗∗∗    −0.054     −0.271∗∗∗    −0.114      0.135       −0.093
                                            (0.112)       (0.082)     (0.089)     (0.136)     (0.097)     (0.103)    (0.105)      (0.090)
             Economic Leaning: Right        −0.147       −0.381∗∗∗   −0.322∗∗∗    −0.033     −0.273∗∗     −0.026     0.242∗∗       0.050
                                            (0.130)       (0.095)     (0.102)     (0.143)     (0.116)     (0.137)    (0.121)      (0.101)
             Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.111       −0.392∗∗∗    −0.141     −0.293∗∗    −0.493∗∗∗   −0.348∗∗     0.096       −0.082
                                            (0.118)       (0.119)     (0.100)     (0.141)     (0.132)     (0.136)    (0.125)      (0.109)
             Treatment: Climate Impacts     0.245∗∗∗       0.141     0.256∗∗∗      0.079      0.194∗∗      0.060     0.302∗∗∗     0.235∗∗∗
                                            (0.083)       (0.094)     (0.064)     (0.076)     (0.077)     (0.090)    (0.085)      (0.078)
             Treatment: Climate Policies     0.229∗∗       0.119       0.070       0.063       0.072       0.051      0.082        0.012
                                            (0.089)       (0.090)     (0.062)     (0.078)     (0.095)     (0.091)    (0.092)      (0.075)
             Treatment: Both                 0.183∗∗       0.069     0.202∗∗∗      0.156∗      0.131       0.092     0.272∗∗∗      0.145∗
                                            (0.087)       (0.085)     (0.060)     (0.081)     (0.083)     (0.084)    (0.085)      (0.083)



               Panel B: Energy usage indicators
             Agglomeration size: Small     −0.003         −0.100      0.118      −0.147∗     −0.260∗∗    −0.279        0.036     −0.073
                                           (0.156)        (0.099)    (0.078)     (0.079)     (0.128)     (0.217)      (0.115)    (0.093)
             Agglomeration size: Medium     0.103          0.027     0.199∗∗     −0.009      −0.010      −0.410∗       0.097     −0.038
                                           (0.158)        (0.126)    (0.086)     (0.128)     (0.150)     (0.224)      (0.118)    (0.110)
             Agglomeration size: Large      0.083         0.238∗     0.252∗∗∗    −0.010       0.002      −0.400∗∗     0.275∗∗    −0.027
                                           (0.151)        (0.127)    (0.074)     (0.087)     (0.123)     (0.200)      (0.108)    (0.091)
             Public transport available     0.033         −0.008      0.066      0.125∗       0.055       0.133∗∗     −0.031     −0.100∗
                                           (0.064)        (0.076)    (0.061)     (0.068)     (0.073)     (0.065)      (0.064)    (0.059)
             Uses car                       0.020         0.124∗     0.695∗∗∗     0.003       0.081        0.048      −0.002     0.154∗∗
                                           (0.081)        (0.069)    (0.169)     (0.066)     (0.080)     (0.080)      (0.068)    (0.073)
             High gas expenses              0.008          0.006     −0.105∗                  0.046      −0.011       −0.099     0.0005
                                           (0.066)        (0.065)    (0.055)                 (0.068)     (0.072)      (0.070)    (0.062)
             High heating expenses                        −0.098                                           0.057       0.008      0.027
                                                          (0.071)                                        (0.072)      (0.063)    (0.060)
             Flies more than once a year       0.027       0.120     0.165∗∗∗    −0.203∗∗∗    −0.023     −0.040      −0.141∗     −0.124∗
                                              (0.078)     (0.083)     (0.055)     (0.077)     (0.079)    (0.077)      (0.072)    (0.071)
             Works in polluting sector       −0.339∗∗∗     0.019     −0.235∗∗∗    −0.112     −0.253∗∗∗     0.066     −0.274∗∗∗    0.015
                                              (0.087)     (0.065)     (0.065)     (0.076)     (0.079)    (0.087)      (0.071)    (0.073)
             Eats beef/meat weekly or more     0.121       0.001      −0.085     −0.145∗∗     −0.046       0.013      −0.054     −0.007
                                              (0.074)     (0.082)     (0.061)     (0.074)     (0.063)    (0.074)      (0.068)    (0.057)
             Owner or landlord                 0.016       0.084      0.159∗      −0.017     −0.143∗       0.009      0.129∗     −0.019
                                              (0.067)     (0.083)     (0.093)     (0.093)     (0.079)    (0.072)      (0.072)    (0.063)
             Observations                      1,860       1,717       2,488       2,472       2,045       1,932       1,564       2,003
             R2                                0.119       0.121       0.090       0.103       0.095       0.058       0.150       0.101

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the Knowledge index on socioeconomic indicators (Panel
A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B). Panel B also controls for socioeconomic indicators, but the
coefficients are not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See
Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.


                                                                          52
     Table A9: Correlation between support for the main climate policies and individual charac-
     teristics
                                                                                      Support
                                                                         Green              Ban on           Carbon tax
                                                    Main climate
                                                                     infrastructure     combustion-engine       with
                                                    policies index
                                                                        program               cars          cash transfers
                                                         (1)              (2)                    (3)             (4)
                      Control group mean               -0.083            0.658                  0.516           0.459


                        Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
                      Gender: Woman                   0.038∗∗∗           0.006                0.001           −0.017∗∗∗
                                                      (0.011)           (0.005)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                      Lives with child(ren) under 14  0.119∗∗∗         0.034∗∗∗             0.049∗∗∗          0.057∗∗∗
                                                      (0.013)           (0.006)              (0.007)           (0.007)
                      Age: 25 - 34                     0.031             0.001                0.013             0.008
                                                      (0.020)           (0.010)              (0.011)           (0.011)
                      Age: 35 - 49                    0.060∗∗∗           0.014              0.037∗∗∗          0.029∗∗∗
                                                      (0.018)           (0.010)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                      Age: 50 or older                0.133∗∗∗         0.060∗∗∗             0.086∗∗∗          0.080∗∗∗
                                                      (0.017)           (0.009)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                      Household income: Q2            0.050∗∗∗         0.034∗∗∗             0.029∗∗∗            0.012
                                                      (0.015)           (0.008)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                      Household income: Q3            0.077∗∗∗         0.046∗∗∗             0.043∗∗∗          0.024∗∗∗
                                                      (0.016)           (0.008)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                      Household income: Q4            0.062∗∗∗         0.045∗∗∗             0.043∗∗∗          0.025∗∗∗
                                                      (0.018)           (0.009)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                      Highest diploma: College        0.122∗∗∗         0.088∗∗∗             0.084∗∗∗          0.064∗∗∗
                                                      (0.022)           (0.011)              (0.011)           (0.011)
                      Highest diploma: High school    0.062∗∗∗         0.052∗∗∗             0.046∗∗∗          0.038∗∗∗
                                                      (0.021)           (0.010)              (0.011)           (0.011)
                      Economic Leaning: Very Left     0.114∗∗∗          0.0002               0.024∗            0.031∗∗
                                                      (0.025)           (0.012)              (0.014)           (0.014)
                      Economic Leaning: Center       −0.237∗∗∗         −0.116∗∗∗            −0.107∗∗∗         −0.100∗∗∗
                                                      (0.016)           (0.008)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                      Economic Leaning: Right        −0.347∗∗∗         −0.127∗∗∗            −0.111∗∗∗         −0.084∗∗∗
                                                      (0.019)           (0.009)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                      Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.283∗∗∗         −0.142∗∗∗            −0.091∗∗∗         −0.082∗∗∗
                                                      (0.024)           (0.010)              (0.011)           (0.011)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts      0.053∗∗∗         0.020∗∗∗             0.021∗∗∗           0.030∗∗∗
53                                                    (0.015)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                      Treatment: Climate Policies     0.125∗∗∗         0.026∗∗∗             0.044∗∗∗           0.102∗∗∗
                                                      (0.015)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                      Treatment: Both                 0.192∗∗∗         0.047∗∗∗             0.072∗∗∗           0.129∗∗∗
                                                      (0.015)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)



                        Panel B: Energy usage indicators
                      Agglomeration size: Small       0.057∗∗∗          0.018∗∗              0.015∗            −0.001
                                                      (0.018)           (0.009)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                      Agglomeration size: Medium      0.053∗∗∗         0.028∗∗∗              0.019∗             0.005
                                                      (0.020)           (0.010)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                      Agglomeration size: Large       0.086∗∗∗         0.030∗∗∗             0.030∗∗∗            0.007
                                                      (0.019)           (0.009)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                      Public transport available      0.256∗∗∗         0.085∗∗∗             0.090∗∗∗          0.103∗∗∗
                                                      (0.012)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                      Uses car                       −0.143∗∗∗         −0.021∗∗∗            −0.056∗∗∗         −0.044∗∗∗
                                                      (0.014)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                      High gas expenses              −0.064∗∗∗         −0.020∗∗∗            −0.023∗∗∗         −0.017∗∗∗
                                                      (0.012)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                      High heating expenses           0.036∗∗∗         0.030∗∗∗             0.025∗∗∗           0.025∗∗∗
                                                      (0.013)           (0.006)              (0.007)           (0.006)
                      Flies more than once a year     0.131∗∗∗         0.047∗∗∗             0.059∗∗∗           0.065∗∗∗
                                                      (0.013)           (0.006)              (0.007)           (0.007)
                      Works in polluting sector        0.013             0.002               −0.001             0.013
                                                      (0.016)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                      Eats beef/meat weekly or more  −0.082∗∗∗         −0.036∗∗∗            −0.035∗∗∗         −0.013∗∗
                                                      (0.012)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                      Owner or landlord                0.017             0.007                0.010            0.014∗∗
                                                      (0.013)           (0.007)              (0.007)           (0.007)
                      Observations                     40,680           40,680                  40,680         40,680
                      R2                               0.173            0.110                   0.108          0.117

     Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic
     characteristics (Panel A) and on energy usage characteristics (Panel B), controlling for country fixed effects.
     Panel B also controls for socioeconomic characteristics, but the coefficients are not displayed. The dependent
     variable in column 1 is the Support for main climate policies index, while the remaining columns are indicator
     variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each of the policies. Robust standard
     errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.
  Table A10: Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
  characteristics in high-income countries
                                                                                   Support for main climate policies index
                                 AUS         CAN         DEU         DNK         ESP         FRA          GBR          ITA        JPN         KOR         POL         USA
                                  (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)          (7)          (8)        (9)        (10)        (11)        (12)
Control group mean               -0.201     -0.098       -0.12      -0.134      -0.104       -0.087      -0.095        -0.18     -0.102      -0.054      -0.062       0.034


  Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
Gender: Woman                   −0.011     −0.123∗∗∗    −0.066      0.135∗∗∗     0.041       0.041        0.019       0.024     0.194∗∗∗     −0.063       0.065       0.030
                                (0.056)     (0.046)     (0.046)     (0.047)     (0.044)     (0.056)      (0.047)     (0.046)     (0.050)     (0.055)     (0.046)     (0.047)
Lives with child(ren) under 14 0.178∗∗∗     0.149∗∗∗     0.059      −0.083       0.089∗    0.183∗∗∗     0.148∗∗∗      0.117∗      0.062       0.058     0.170∗∗∗      0.070
                                (0.062)     (0.052)     (0.062)     (0.056)     (0.050)     (0.064)      (0.056)     (0.061)     (0.064)     (0.071)     (0.053)     (0.047)
Age: 25 - 34                    −0.079      −0.003     −0.230∗∗      0.010       0.013     −0.171∗       −0.086      −0.116       0.025       0.057      −0.109       0.125
                                (0.083)     (0.092)     (0.092)     (0.093)     (0.080)     (0.103)      (0.080)     (0.093)     (0.095)     (0.108)     (0.088)     (0.078)
Age: 35 - 49                    −0.103     −0.180∗∗    −0.172∗      −0.066      −0.110     −0.328∗∗∗      0.096      −0.097       0.151∗      0.144      −0.011       0.098
                                (0.087)     (0.090)     (0.089)     (0.090)     (0.074)     (0.094)      (0.080)     (0.090)     (0.091)     (0.102)     (0.080)     (0.078)
Age: 50 or older               −0.222∗∗∗    −0.086     −0.208∗∗     −0.012       0.014     −0.422∗∗∗     −0.056      −0.080      0.338∗∗∗   0.416∗∗∗    0.247∗∗∗    −0.227∗∗∗
                                (0.082)     (0.083)     (0.083)     (0.086)     (0.068)     (0.092)      (0.075)     (0.081)     (0.084)     (0.091)     (0.076)     (0.072)
Household income: Q2             0.089∗      0.032      −0.100      −0.026       0.105∗     −0.078       −0.012       0.089      0.142∗∗      0.066      0.165∗∗     −0.013
                                (0.053)     (0.065)     (0.063)     (0.063)     (0.061)     (0.065)      (0.060)     (0.061)     (0.062)     (0.070)     (0.065)     (0.057)
Household income: Q3            0.164∗∗      0.062      −0.016       0.004       0.116∗     −0.047        0.012      0.148∗∗     0.176∗∗∗    0.137∗∗     0.115∗      −0.001
                                (0.070)     (0.066)     (0.065)     (0.063)     (0.064)     (0.077)      (0.063)     (0.066)     (0.063)     (0.067)     (0.065)     (0.071)
Household income: Q4             0.018       0.035     −0.110∗      −0.025       0.082      −0.120        0.062     0.203∗∗∗      0.105       0.117      0.163∗∗      0.056
                                (0.092)     (0.076)     (0.066)     (0.077)     (0.064)     (0.087)      (0.067)     (0.071)     (0.072)     (0.088)     (0.070)     (0.074)
Highest diploma: College        0.233∗∗     −0.022       0.034      0.163∗∗     0.153∗∗      0.044      0.291∗∗∗    0.211∗∗∗      0.232     −0.662∗∗∗    −0.128      0.257∗∗
                                (0.106)     (0.077)     (0.076)     (0.083)     (0.070)     (0.093)      (0.069)     (0.077)     (0.193)     (0.169)     (0.163)     (0.114)
Highest diploma: High school     0.020     −0.135∗      −0.100       0.092       0.120∗     −0.077        0.095       0.110       0.083     −0.727∗∗∗    −0.129       0.181∗
                                (0.099)     (0.074)     (0.067)     (0.077)     (0.071)     (0.080)      (0.068)     (0.067)     (0.192)     (0.172)     (0.160)     (0.110)
Economic Leaning: Very Left      0.038       0.095       0.115     0.402∗∗∗      0.106     −0.363∗        0.026       0.041       0.124       0.059      −0.084      0.298∗∗∗
                                (0.120)     (0.093)     (0.131)     (0.115)     (0.070)     (0.213)      (0.114)     (0.083)     (0.187)     (0.170)     (0.100)     (0.078)
Economic Leaning: Center       −0.517∗∗∗   −0.358∗∗∗   −0.442∗∗∗   −0.259∗∗∗   −0.285∗∗∗    −0.079      −0.472∗∗∗   −0.275∗∗∗   −0.269∗∗∗   −0.433∗∗∗   −0.124∗∗    −0.353∗∗∗
                                (0.075)     (0.062)     (0.058)     (0.057)     (0.053)     (0.082)      (0.061)     (0.055)     (0.070)     (0.072)     (0.062)     (0.058)
Economic Leaning: Right        −0.700∗∗∗   −0.610∗∗∗   −0.748∗∗∗   −0.707∗∗∗   −0.601∗∗∗   −0.287∗∗∗    −0.493∗∗∗   −0.309∗∗∗   −0.361∗∗∗   −0.481∗∗∗   −0.330∗∗∗   −0.814∗∗∗
                                (0.091)     (0.078)     (0.078)     (0.066)     (0.070)     (0.082)      (0.074)     (0.066)     (0.087)     (0.087)     (0.079)     (0.075)
Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.745∗∗∗   −0.719∗∗∗   −0.885∗∗∗   −0.756∗∗∗   −0.738∗∗∗   −0.553∗∗∗    −0.374∗∗∗   −0.559∗∗∗   −0.741∗∗∗   −0.462∗∗∗   −0.452∗∗∗   −0.906∗∗∗
                                (0.154)     (0.120)     (0.136)     (0.177)     (0.092)     (0.115)      (0.116)     (0.105)     (0.140)     (0.161)     (0.099)     (0.089)
Treatment: Climate Impacts     0.211∗∗∗      0.007       0.078      0.133∗∗      0.022       0.061        0.046      0.128∗∗      0.036      −0.005       0.067     −0.114∗
                                (0.076)     (0.064)     (0.059)     (0.060)     (0.060)     (0.071)      (0.060)     (0.064)     (0.062)     (0.071)     (0.062)     (0.062)
Treatment: Climate Policies     0.257∗∗∗    0.223∗∗∗   0.220∗∗∗     0.143∗∗      0.120∗      0.065       0.106∗      0.317∗∗∗    0.164∗∗∗     0.079      0.114∗      −0.004
                                (0.072)     (0.064)     (0.063)     (0.059)     (0.062)     (0.072)      (0.061)     (0.060)     (0.064)     (0.075)     (0.062)     (0.065)
Treatment: Both                 0.323∗∗∗    0.194∗∗∗   0.219∗∗∗    0.272∗∗∗     0.294∗∗∗    0.196∗∗     0.288∗∗∗     0.340∗∗∗    0.202∗∗∗   0.199∗∗∗     0.140∗∗      0.023
                                (0.081)     (0.060)     (0.061)     (0.062)     (0.058)     (0.077)      (0.060)     (0.065)     (0.064)     (0.070)     (0.063)     (0.066)



  Panel B: Energy usage indicators
Agglomeration size: Small       0.153        0.135       0.024     0.263∗∗∗      0.069      0.115∗        0.069     0.202∗∗∗      0.090      0.049       −0.007       0.086
                               (0.113)      (0.083)     (0.067)     (0.065)     (0.084)     (0.068)      (0.067)     (0.070)     (0.177)    (0.191)      (0.066)    (0.068)
Agglomeration size: Medium      0.172        0.144∗     −0.032      0.259∗∗∗     0.092       0.124        0.109      0.164∗∗      0.091      0.091       −0.013       0.053
                               (0.116)      (0.084)     (0.074)     (0.067)     (0.086)     (0.090)      (0.081)     (0.082)     (0.178)    (0.196)      (0.071)    (0.076)
Agglomeration size: Large       0.113        0.123       0.036     0.235∗∗∗      0.071      0.175∗       0.141∗       0.019       0.086      0.017       −0.001     0.240∗∗∗
                               (0.110)      (0.080)     (0.074)     (0.071)     (0.084)     (0.099)      (0.076)     (0.087)     (0.176)    (0.187)      (0.073)    (0.073)
Public transport available     0.342∗∗∗     0.256∗∗∗   0.257∗∗∗    0.279∗∗∗     0.229∗∗∗   0.250∗∗∗     0.251∗∗∗    0.228∗∗∗      0.079     0.192∗∗∗    0.186∗∗∗    0.259∗∗∗
                               (0.054)      (0.048)     (0.046)     (0.047)     (0.046)     (0.059)      (0.045)     (0.056)     (0.051)    (0.055)      (0.050)    (0.049)
Uses car                      −0.324∗∗∗    −0.213∗∗∗   −0.272∗∗∗   −0.138∗∗∗   −0.228∗∗∗   −0.434∗∗∗    −0.343∗∗∗   −0.178∗∗∗   −0.167∗∗∗   −0.163∗∗    −0.293∗∗∗     0.018
                               (0.077)      (0.065)     (0.054)     (0.052)     (0.055)     (0.081)      (0.056)     (0.066)     (0.062)    (0.064)      (0.061)    (0.073)
High gas expenses              −0.035      −0.155∗∗∗   −0.217∗∗∗   −0.169∗∗∗     0.051      −0.021       −0.045      0.137∗∗∗   −0.108∗     −0.039       −0.040     −0.048
                               (0.059)      (0.048)     (0.048)     (0.046)     (0.048)     (0.057)      (0.053)     (0.047)     (0.056)    (0.057)      (0.049)    (0.048)
High heating expenses           0.101∗       0.085∗     0.117∗∗      0.020      −0.013       0.017        0.022      −0.053       0.069     0.132∗∗      0.119∗∗     0.088∗
                               (0.055)      (0.049)     (0.047)     (0.046)     (0.046)     (0.055)      (0.045)     (0.048)     (0.047)    (0.054)      (0.051)    (0.047)
Flies more than once a year   0.195∗∗∗      0.109∗∗     0.088∗       0.078∗     0.168∗∗∗     0.103       −0.063      0.208∗∗∗    0.166∗∗∗   0.153∗∗∗     0.120∗∗     0.115∗∗
                               (0.059)      (0.051)     (0.051)     (0.046)     (0.045)     (0.068)      (0.048)     (0.050)     (0.055)    (0.056)      (0.061)    (0.050)
Works in polluting sector      −0.093       −0.055       0.080      −0.059       0.054      0.175∗∗      −0.009       0.037      −0.042      0.078        0.059       0.102
                               (0.076)      (0.072)     (0.065)     (0.076)     (0.070)     (0.072)      (0.078)     (0.086)     (0.067)    (0.068)      (0.063)    (0.077)
Eats beef/meat weekly or more −0.144∗∗∗    −0.140∗∗∗   −0.214∗∗∗   −0.271∗∗∗   −0.208∗∗∗   −0.198∗∗∗    −0.083∗      −0.044       0.051      0.020       −0.042     −0.094∗
                               (0.051)      (0.045)     (0.050)     (0.045)     (0.044)     (0.052)      (0.045)     (0.047)     (0.050)    (0.060)      (0.064)    (0.051)
Owner or landlord               0.118∗       0.035       0.010      −0.072      −0.057       0.055        0.058      −0.028      0.124∗∗     0.020       −0.025     −0.140∗∗
                               (0.060)      (0.055)     (0.049)     (0.051)     (0.050)     (0.064)      (0.052)     (0.057)     (0.054)    (0.059)      (0.058)    (0.061)
Observations                     1,978       2,022       2,006       2,013       2,268       2,006        2,025        2,088      1,990       1,932       2,053       2,218
R2                               0.188       0.127       0.157       0.209       0.135       0.149        0.135        0.103      0.087       0.116       0.075       0.241

  Note: The table shows the results of regressions of Support for main climate policies index on socioeconomic
  indicators (Panel A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B). Panel B also controls for socioeconomic indi-
  cators, but the coefficients are not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05;
  ∗∗∗
      p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                                    54
Table A11: Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
characteristics in middle-income countries
                                                                         Support for main climate policies index
                                                 BRA        CHN         IDN         IND         MEX         TUR        UKR        ZAF
                                                  (1)        (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)        (7)        (8)
               Control group mean               -0.163     -0.121      -0.066      -0.057      -0.065       -0.038     -0.115     -0.115


                 Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
               Gender: Woman                   0.114∗       0.055      0.077∗      0.041      −0.129∗∗     −0.035      0.020     −0.143∗∗
                                              (0.064)      (0.066)    (0.044)     (0.055)     (0.065)      (0.065)    (0.063)    (0.061)
               Lives with child(ren) under 14 0.152∗∗      −0.137     0.301∗∗∗     0.054      0.141∗∗      0.373∗∗∗   −0.058      0.094
                                              (0.071)      (0.087)    (0.058)     (0.062)     (0.064)      (0.071)    (0.068)    (0.065)
               Age: 25 - 34                   −0.006       0.394∗∗∗    0.088      0.178∗∗       0.065       0.067      0.049     −0.063
                                              (0.094)      (0.124)    (0.065)     (0.087)     (0.092)      (0.098)    (0.117)    (0.085)
               Age: 35 - 49                   0.287∗∗∗     0.500∗∗∗   0.242∗∗∗    0.176∗∗       0.085       0.038      0.184∗    −0.103
                                              (0.084)      (0.116)    (0.063)     (0.086)     (0.085)      (0.087)    (0.099)    (0.084)
               Age: 50 or older               0.244∗∗∗     0.711∗∗∗   0.527∗∗∗    0.473∗∗∗    0.383∗∗∗     0.527∗∗∗    0.175∗     0.033
                                              (0.084)      (0.110)    (0.077)     (0.074)     (0.089)      (0.090)    (0.104)    (0.090)
               Household income: Q2             0.034       0.017     0.266∗∗∗    0.219∗∗       0.027       0.069     0.241∗∗     0.047
                                              (0.086)      (0.111)    (0.060)     (0.085)     (0.085)      (0.091)    (0.099)    (0.089)
               Household income: Q3           0.256∗∗∗      0.122     0.338∗∗∗    0.349∗∗∗      0.025      −0.080      0.189∗    −0.050
                                              (0.094)      (0.120)    (0.069)     (0.089)     (0.093)      (0.100)    (0.106)    (0.089)
               Household income: Q4            0.195∗      0.216∗∗    0.449∗∗∗    0.318∗∗∗      0.012       0.163     0.240∗∗    −0.172∗
                                              (0.102)      (0.103)    (0.068)     (0.072)     (0.104)      (0.106)    (0.102)    (0.098)
               Highest diploma: College        0.274∗      0.307∗∗∗   0.445∗∗∗    0.723∗∗∗    0.258∗∗∗      0.148      0.136      0.088
                                              (0.140)      (0.107)    (0.104)     (0.132)     (0.090)      (0.094)    (0.239)    (0.132)
               Highest diploma: High school     0.206      0.333∗∗∗   0.412∗∗∗    0.503∗∗∗     0.200∗∗     −0.107      0.266      0.051
                                              (0.137)      (0.102)    (0.102)     (0.130)     (0.086)      (0.099)    (0.238)    (0.125)
               Economic Leaning: Very Left      0.155      0.453∗∗∗    0.151      0.360∗∗       0.068      0.348∗∗∗    0.076     0.484∗∗∗
                                              (0.117)      (0.162)    (0.158)     (0.179)     (0.154)      (0.118)    (0.170)    (0.136)
               Economic Leaning: Center       −0.225∗∗     0.227∗∗    −0.097       0.087      −0.153        0.046      0.141     −0.003
                                              (0.091)      (0.091)    (0.080)     (0.122)     (0.112)      (0.098)    (0.119)    (0.093)
               Economic Leaning: Right        −0.217∗∗     0.187∗∗     0.033       0.173        0.130       0.048     0.428∗∗∗    0.086
                                              (0.108)      (0.095)    (0.086)     (0.129)     (0.117)      (0.120)    (0.129)    (0.108)
               Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.255∗∗     0.539∗∗∗   0.497∗∗∗    0.267∗∗     −0.073       −0.141     0.521∗∗∗    0.180
                                              (0.111)      (0.170)    (0.092)     (0.135)     (0.137)      (0.132)    (0.128)    (0.125)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts      0.144∗       0.161∗     0.063       0.033        0.100      −0.122      0.035      0.118
                                              (0.086)      (0.091)    (0.054)     (0.075)     (0.080)      (0.085)    (0.082)    (0.082)
               Treatment: Climate Policies     0.196∗∗      0.067      0.080       0.121        0.041       0.144∗     0.171∗    0.182∗∗
                                              (0.088)      (0.094)    (0.057)     (0.075)     (0.089)      (0.087)    (0.088)    (0.082)
               Treatment: Both                0.342∗∗∗     0.256∗∗∗   0.141∗∗      0.079       0.160∗       0.112     0.227∗∗    0.258∗∗∗
                                              (0.087)      (0.094)    (0.055)     (0.080)     (0.083)      (0.081)    (0.092)    (0.085)



                 Panel B: Energy usage indicators
               Agglomeration size: Small     −0.066         0.085      0.088       0.103       0.083      0.573∗∗∗    −0.074      0.030
                                             (0.163)       (0.110)    (0.062)     (0.080)     (0.122)      (0.218)    (0.116)    (0.097)
               Agglomeration size: Medium     0.186        −0.057      0.134∗      0.040       0.186        0.221     −0.070     −0.089
                                             (0.160)       (0.140)    (0.078)     (0.112)     (0.127)      (0.208)    (0.124)    (0.124)
               Agglomeration size: Large      0.201         0.197      0.034       0.085       0.121       0.416∗∗    −0.006     −0.001
                                             (0.155)       (0.133)    (0.067)     (0.087)     (0.113)      (0.197)    (0.118)    (0.099)
               Public transport available    0.200∗∗∗       0.061     0.356∗∗∗    0.180∗∗∗     0.029      0.166∗∗∗     0.103     0.244∗∗∗
                                             (0.068)       (0.077)    (0.053)     (0.066)     (0.084)      (0.060)    (0.072)    (0.060)
               Uses car                      −0.021        0.166∗∗    0.279∗∗∗    0.279∗∗∗    −0.113       −0.018     −0.026     −0.086
                                             (0.082)       (0.073)    (0.103)     (0.069)     (0.077)      (0.074)    (0.079)    (0.072)
               High gas expenses              0.015        −0.035     −0.080∗                 −0.132∗∗     −0.021     −0.109     −0.031
                                             (0.065)       (0.083)    (0.045)                 (0.065)      (0.073)    (0.079)    (0.064)
               High heating expenses                        0.042                                         −0.250∗∗∗    0.011     0.132∗∗
                                                           (0.079)                                         (0.073)    (0.066)    (0.061)
               Flies more than once a year       0.102      0.094     0.250∗∗∗    −0.194∗∗∗   0.205∗∗∗    0.235∗∗∗    −0.226∗∗   0.178∗∗
                                                (0.077)    (0.088)     (0.051)     (0.075)    (0.074)      (0.075)    (0.095)    (0.077)
               Works in polluting sector       −0.343∗∗∗   0.273∗∗∗   −0.177∗∗∗    −0.087      0.040        0.108      0.038      0.020
                                                (0.089)    (0.070)     (0.054)     (0.077)    (0.070)      (0.075)    (0.078)    (0.080)
               Eats beef/meat weekly or more     0.002     −0.125       0.010      0.131∗      0.052        0.095      0.023     −0.089
                                                (0.073)    (0.083)     (0.043)     (0.069)    (0.065)      (0.066)    (0.074)    (0.062)
               Owner or landlord                −0.001      0.168∗    0.243∗∗∗    0.271∗∗∗     0.097        0.063      0.084      0.074
                                                (0.067)    (0.086)     (0.071)     (0.082)    (0.075)      (0.068)    (0.079)    (0.064)
               Observations                      1,860      1,717       2,488       2,472       2,045       1,932      1,564      2,003
               R2                                0.111      0.140       0.364       0.182       0.069       0.172      0.080      0.077

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the Support for main climate policies index on socioe-
conomic indicators (Panel A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B). Panel B also controls for socioeco-
nomic indicators, but the coefficients are not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1;
∗∗
   p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                          55
  Table A12: Correlation between support for the three main climate policies and beliefs
                                                                                               Support
                                                                                  Green              Ban on           Carbon tax
                                                             Main climate
                                                                              infrastructure     combustion-engine       with
                                                             policies index
                                                                                 program               cars          cash transfers
                                                                  (1)              (2)                    (3)             (4)
           Control group mean                                   -0.083            0.658                  0.516           0.459
           Trusts the governement                              0.042∗∗∗         0.009∗∗∗              0.007∗∗          0.024∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Believes inequality is an important problem         0.039∗∗∗         0.014∗∗∗              0.011∗∗∗         0.027∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Worries about the consequences of CC                0.045∗∗∗         0.019∗∗∗              0.013∗∗∗           0.005
                                                                (0.005)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Believes net-zero is technically feasible           0.025∗∗∗         0.011∗∗∗              0.011∗∗∗           0.002
                                                                (0.005)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Believes will suffer from climate change            0.051∗∗∗         0.020∗∗∗              0.027∗∗∗         0.009∗∗∗
                                                                (0.005)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Understands emission across activities/regions      0.013∗∗∗         0.012∗∗∗              0.009∗∗∗         0.009∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Knows CC is real & caused by human                  0.067∗∗∗         0.024∗∗∗              0.020∗∗∗         0.007∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Knows which gases cause CC                          0.011∗∗∗         0.010∗∗∗              0.009∗∗∗         0.011∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.002)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Understands impacts of CC                             0.003            0.004               −0.004           −0.007∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.003)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Believes policies entail positive econ. effects     0.075∗∗∗         0.024∗∗∗              0.018∗∗∗         0.018∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.002)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Believes policies would reduce pollution            0.121∗∗∗         0.083∗∗∗              0.052∗∗∗         0.021∗∗∗
                                                                (0.007)          (0.004)              (0.005)           (0.005)
           Believes policies would reduce emissions            0.264∗∗∗         0.082∗∗∗              0.089∗∗∗         0.123∗∗∗
                                                                (0.008)          (0.005)              (0.005)           (0.005)
           Believes own household would lose                   −0.334∗∗∗        −0.085∗∗∗            −0.120∗∗∗         −0.114∗∗∗
                                                                (0.007)          (0.004)              (0.004)           (0.004)
           Believes low-income earners will lose               −0.062∗∗∗         −0.001              −0.014∗∗∗         −0.038∗∗∗
                                                                (0.006)          (0.004)              (0.004)           (0.004)
           Believes high-income earners will lose              0.016∗∗∗         0.006∗∗∗              0.007∗∗∗         0.010∗∗∗
                                                                (0.004)          (0.002)              (0.003)           (0.003)
           Observations                                         40,680           40,680                  40,680         40,680
           R2                                                   0.698            0.387                   0.357          0.376

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of variables listed in the columns on standardized variables
measuring respondents’ beliefs and perceptions. Country fixed effects, treatment indicators, and individual
socioeconomic characteristics are included but not displayed. Dependent variables are indices (columns 1, 2),
or indicator variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each of the main climate
policies (3, 4, 5). Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix
A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                        56
          Table A13: Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and beliefs in high-
          income countries
                                                                                                        Support for main climate policies index
                                                    AUS         CAN         DEU         DNK            ESP        FRA          GBR          ITA        JPN         KOR         POL         USA
                                                     (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)           (5)         (6)          (7)          (8)        (9)        (10)        (11)        (12)
Control group mean                                 -0.201      -0.098       -0.12      -0.134      -0.104         -0.087      -0.095        -0.18     -0.102      -0.054      -0.062       0.034
Trusts the governement                             −0.001      0.050∗∗∗    0.030∗∗     0.032∗∗    0.045∗∗∗      0.067∗∗∗      0.030∗∗     0.033∗∗      0.020     0.067∗∗∗    0.061∗∗∗     0.028∗
                                                   (0.017)     (0.014)     (0.015)     (0.015)     (0.014)       (0.020)      (0.014)     (0.016)     (0.018)     (0.020)     (0.015)     (0.015)
Believes inequality is an important problem         0.001      0.035∗∗     0.032∗∗    0.081∗∗∗      0.003        −0.012       0.033∗∗      0.014       0.016     0.067∗∗∗      0.018     0.071∗∗∗
                                                   (0.020)     (0.014)     (0.013)     (0.017)     (0.014)       (0.020)      (0.015)     (0.015)     (0.017)     (0.020)     (0.014)     (0.021)
Worries about the consequences of CC               0.071∗∗∗    0.036∗∗      0.029∗    0.079∗∗∗      0.006         0.027      0.082∗∗∗     0.034∗      0.031∗       0.023      0.038∗∗    0.085∗∗∗
                                                   (0.021)     (0.016)     (0.015)     (0.017)     (0.016)       (0.022)      (0.017)     (0.018)     (0.018)     (0.021)     (0.018)     (0.020)
Believes net-zero is technically feasible         0.056∗∗∗      0.026∗      0.025     0.046∗∗∗     0.030∗∗       −0.007       0.057∗∗∗     0.005       0.024      −0.008      −0.001       0.023
                                                   (0.019)     (0.016)     (0.015)     (0.016)     (0.015)       (0.021)      (0.016)     (0.018)     (0.019)     (0.020)     (0.016)     (0.019)
Believes will suffer from climate change            0.044∗    0.047∗∗∗    0.037∗∗∗    0.057∗∗∗      0.020         0.009       −0.002       0.009     0.066∗∗∗    0.080∗∗∗    0.065∗∗∗    0.063∗∗∗
                                                   (0.024)     (0.015)     (0.014)     (0.016)     (0.015)       (0.020)      (0.016)     (0.018)     (0.020)     (0.021)     (0.017)     (0.021)
Understands emission across activities/regions     −0.015      0.059∗∗∗     0.021       0.010       0.018         0.025        0.019      0.028∗      0.025∗      −0.002       0.010       0.009
                                                   (0.014)     (0.012)     (0.015)     (0.015)     (0.014)       (0.017)      (0.013)     (0.015)     (0.015)     (0.018)     (0.014)     (0.014)
Knows CC is real & caused by human                 0.087∗∗∗   0.083∗∗∗    0.065∗∗∗    0.043∗∗∗    0.094∗∗∗      0.089∗∗∗     0.084∗∗∗    0.074∗∗∗      0.022       0.037∗    0.067∗∗∗    0.051∗∗∗
                                                   (0.019)     (0.013)     (0.014)     (0.015)     (0.016)       (0.022)      (0.014)     (0.017)     (0.016)     (0.020)     (0.014)     (0.015)
Knows which gases cause CC                        −0.0004       0.006       0.015       0.012       0.012         0.019        0.005       0.022      −0.007       0.012       0.014      −0.009
                                                   (0.013)     (0.012)     (0.014)     (0.015)     (0.012)       (0.017)      (0.012)     (0.015)     (0.014)     (0.017)     (0.013)     (0.014)
Understands impacts of CC                           0.016      −0.005     −0.029∗∗     −0.004       0.018         0.020       −0.001      −0.009       0.009     −0.045∗∗    −0.028∗∗     −0.024
                                                   (0.016)     (0.013)     (0.014)     (0.016)     (0.014)       (0.021)      (0.015)     (0.015)     (0.017)     (0.018)     (0.014)     (0.015)
Believes policies entail positive econ. effects   0.145∗∗∗    0.139∗∗∗    0.120∗∗∗    0.083∗∗∗    0.112∗∗∗       0.049∗∗     0.154∗∗∗    0.112∗∗∗    0.080∗∗∗     0.073∗∗∗   0.103∗∗∗    0.093∗∗∗
                                                   (0.020)     (0.017)     (0.016)     (0.016)     (0.016)       (0.021)      (0.015)     (0.020)     (0.018)     (0.019)     (0.017)     (0.016)
Believes policies would reduce pollution          0.139∗∗∗    0.111∗∗∗     0.057∗∗    0.134∗∗∗    0.118∗∗∗      0.137∗∗∗     0.130∗∗∗    0.191∗∗∗     −0.015      0.146∗∗∗   0.074∗∗∗     0.066∗∗
                                                   (0.027)     (0.025)     (0.024)     (0.027)     (0.028)       (0.034)      (0.024)     (0.029)     (0.027)     (0.033)     (0.027)     (0.028)
Believes policies would reduce emissions           0.152∗∗∗   0.205∗∗∗     0.250∗∗∗   0.261∗∗∗    0.261∗∗∗      0.342∗∗∗     0.228∗∗∗    0.342∗∗∗    0.479∗∗∗     0.350∗∗∗   0.317∗∗∗    0.174∗∗∗
                                                   (0.034)     (0.027)     (0.026)     (0.028)     (0.029)       (0.037)      (0.028)     (0.032)     (0.031)     (0.035)     (0.029)     (0.034)
Believes own household would lose                 −0.323∗∗∗   −0.386∗∗∗   −0.365∗∗∗   −0.283∗∗∗   −0.333∗∗∗     −0.253∗∗∗    −0.317∗∗∗   −0.216∗∗∗   −0.294∗∗∗   −0.279∗∗∗   −0.369∗∗∗   −0.320∗∗∗
                                                   (0.029)     (0.021)     (0.021)     (0.022)     (0.023)       (0.027)      (0.022)     (0.023)     (0.025)     (0.027)     (0.023)     (0.030)
Believes low-income earners will lose             −0.082∗∗∗   −0.044∗∗    −0.123∗∗∗   −0.095∗∗∗   −0.082∗∗∗     −0.109∗∗∗    −0.064∗∗∗    −0.022     −0.092∗∗∗    −0.038     −0.070∗∗∗   −0.139∗∗∗
                                                   (0.028)     (0.020)     (0.020)     (0.020)     (0.019)       (0.024)      (0.021)     (0.024)     (0.024)     (0.028)     (0.021)     (0.024)
Believes high-income earners will lose            −0.037∗∗     0.026∗∗      0.012      −0.021      0.023∗        0.043∗∗       0.020       0.012      0.035∗       0.028       0.015      −0.011
                                                   (0.016)     (0.013)     (0.014)     (0.017)     (0.013)       (0.019)      (0.013)     (0.015)     (0.018)     (0.020)     (0.014)     (0.017)
Observations                                        1,978       2,022       2,006       2,013       2,268         2,006        2,025        2,088      1,990       1,932       2,053       2,218
R2                                                  0.779       0.767       0.729       0.656       0.710         0.625        0.750        0.655      0.611       0.620       0.698       0.766

          Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the Support for main climate policies index on stan-
          dardized variables measuring respondents’ beliefs and perceptions. Treatment indicators and individual
          socioeconomic characteristics are included but not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses;
          ∗
            p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                                                  57
Table A14: Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and beliefs in
middle-income countries
                                                                                               Support for main climate policies index
                                                                   BRA       CHN             IDN          IND          MEX           TUR         UKR             ZAF
                                                                    (1)       (2)             (3)         (4)           (5)           (6)         (7)             (8)
         Control group mean                                     -0.163      -0.121           -0.066      -0.057       -0.065        -0.038      -0.115           -0.115
         Trusts the governement                                −0.008       0.096∗∗∗        0.089∗∗∗    0.049∗∗       0.056∗∗        0.039     0.080∗∗∗         0.062∗∗
                                                               (0.020)      (0.032)         (0.023)     (0.024)       (0.025)       (0.024)     (0.023)         (0.027)
         Believes inequality is an important problem          0.070∗∗∗     0.073∗∗∗         0.064∗∗∗   0.100∗∗∗       0.061∗∗        0.009       0.038           0.027
                                                               (0.023)      (0.026)         (0.018)     (0.027)       (0.025)       (0.028)     (0.023)         (0.021)
         Worries about the consequences of CC                   0.042∗     0.102∗∗∗         0.042∗∗     −0.023        0.045∗        0.058∗∗      0.017         0.059∗∗∗
                                                               (0.023)      (0.026)         (0.019)     (0.027)       (0.025)       (0.025)     (0.025)         (0.023)
         Believes net-zero is technically feasible              0.012        0.017           0.034       0.018         0.013        0.046∗∗     0.036∗           0.017
                                                               (0.021)      (0.031)         (0.022)     (0.029)       (0.023)       (0.023)     (0.022)         (0.025)
         Believes will suffer from climate change              0.048∗∗       0.006         0.050∗∗∗     0.050∗       0.081∗∗∗       0.081∗∗∗   0.073∗∗∗          0.017
                                                               (0.023)      (0.027)         (0.018)     (0.028)       (0.025)       (0.029)     (0.024)         (0.023)
         Understands emission across activities/regions        0.045∗∗       0.008           0.013       0.004         0.025        −0.014      −0.010          −0.013
                                                               (0.019)      (0.023)         (0.013)     (0.018)       (0.019)       (0.022)     (0.020)         (0.021)
         Knows CC is real & caused by human                     0.026       −0.020          0.034∗∗    0.084∗∗∗       0.059∗∗       0.069∗∗    0.061∗∗∗         0.052∗∗
                                                               (0.021)      (0.024)         (0.016)     (0.019)       (0.023)       (0.028)     (0.020)         (0.022)
         Knows which gases cause CC                             0.019       −0.029          −0.005       0.020        0.046∗∗       0.044∗∗     −0.015          0.051∗∗
                                                               (0.024)      (0.023)         (0.014)     (0.020)       (0.021)       (0.021)     (0.021)         (0.022)
         Understands impacts of CC                              0.025        0.023           0.014     0.069∗∗∗       −0.008         0.013       0.031           0.022
                                                               (0.020)      (0.022)         (0.014)     (0.023)       (0.022)       (0.021)     (0.021)         (0.021)
         Believes policies entail positive econ. effects       0.053∗∗       0.013           0.014      −0.010       0.068∗∗∗        0.008     0.116∗∗∗        0.079∗∗∗
                                                               (0.021)      (0.023)         (0.011)     (0.019)       (0.022)       (0.019)     (0.023)         (0.025)
         Believes policies would reduce pollution             0.166∗∗∗      −0.050          0.090∗∗∗   0.179∗∗∗      0.107∗∗∗       0.229∗∗∗   0.160∗∗∗        0.123∗∗∗
                                                               (0.030)      (0.035)         (0.023)     (0.035)       (0.036)       (0.045)     (0.038)         (0.038)
         Believes policies would reduce emissions              0.286∗∗∗    0.284∗∗∗         0.297∗∗∗   0.263∗∗∗      0.254∗∗∗       0.231∗∗∗   0.240∗∗∗        0.278∗∗∗
                                                               (0.033)      (0.043)         (0.033)     (0.043)       (0.038)       (0.051)     (0.041)         (0.038)
         Believes own household would lose                    −0.307∗∗∗    −0.332∗∗∗       −0.355∗∗∗   −0.375∗∗∗     −0.366∗∗∗     −0.273∗∗∗   −0.347∗∗∗       −0.363∗∗∗
                                                               (0.039)      (0.041)         (0.038)     (0.043)       (0.033)       (0.030)     (0.031)         (0.034)
         Believes low-income earners will lose                 −0.035      −0.114∗∗∗        −0.038      0.079∗∗      −0.049∗       −0.122∗∗∗    −0.020          −0.016
                                                               (0.029)      (0.033)         (0.034)     (0.038)       (0.027)       (0.030)     (0.028)         (0.034)
         Believes high-income earners will lose                −0.004       −0.030           0.025     0.068∗∗∗       0.045∗∗        0.036∗     0.038∗          −0.023
                                                               (0.020)      (0.028)         (0.018)     (0.024)       (0.021)       (0.019)     (0.021)         (0.021)
         Observations                                              1,860     1,717           2,488       2,472         2,045         1,932       1,564           2,003
         R2                                                        0.652     0.579           0.720       0.607         0.617         0.667       0.642           0.577

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the Support for main climate policies index on stan-
dardized variables measuring respondents’ beliefs and perceptions. Treatment indicators and individual
socioeconomic characteristics are included but not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses;
∗
  p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.

                  Table A15: Effects of the treatments on support for climate action
                                                                                                Support or Agreement
                                                         Green                 Ban on                   Carbon tax             Fairness of          Adopt
                                                     infrastructure        combustion-engine               with               main climate      climate-friendly
                                                        program                  cars                  cash transfers         policies index       behaviors
                                                             (1)                     (2)                     (3)                   (4)                   (5)
            Control group mean                              0.658                   0.516                   0.459                -0.083                 -0.031
            Treatment: Climate impacts                     0.019∗∗∗             0.020∗∗                   0.029∗∗∗               0.045∗∗∗           0.052∗∗∗
                                                           (0.007)              (0.008)                   (0.008)                (0.015)            (0.016)
            Treatment: Climate policy                      0.026∗∗∗             0.044∗∗∗                  0.102∗∗∗               0.135∗∗∗            0.017
                                                           (0.007)              (0.008)                   (0.008)                (0.015)            (0.016)
            Treatment: Both                                0.047∗∗∗             0.073∗∗∗                  0.130∗∗∗               0.189∗∗∗           0.075∗∗∗
                                                           (0.007)              (0.008)                   (0.008)                (0.015)            (0.016)
            Observations                                   40,680                   40,680                 40,680                40,680                 40,680
            R2                                             0.096                    0.091                  0.101                 0.141                  0.098

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic charac-
teristics, controlling for country fixed effects. Only the coefficients for the treatment effects are displayed.
Dependent variables are indicator variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each
of the main climate policies (columns 1, 2, 3), or indices (4, 5). Robust standard errors are in parentheses;
∗
  p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                                       58
                 Table A16: Effects of the treatments on main outcomes – High-income countries

                                                                                                                                      Support or Agreement
                                                        Ban on              Green       Carbon tax       Fairness of        Willingness to               Ban on            Tax on         Ban on          Tax        Subsidies      Mandatory
                                                    combustion-engine   infrastructure     with         main climate     adopt climate-friendly   combustion-engine cars    fossil    polluting cars       on     to low-carbon   and subsidized
                                                          cars             program     cash transfers   policies index      behavior index           with alternatives      fuels     in city centers   flights    technologies     insulation
                                                           (1)                (2)           (3)               (4)                 (5)                       (6)              (7)            (8)           (9)          (10)            (11)
                      Control group mean                  0.356             0.494          0.336            -0.43                -0.53                    0.388             0.358         0.529          0.354        0.616            0.7

                      Treatment: Climate Policies       0.059**            0.068**        0.150***        0.252***              0.186**                   0.049              0.045         0.035          0.003      0.007            -0.031
     Australia                                           (0.036)           (0.037)         (0.036)         (0.079)              (0.078)                  (0.036)            (0.036)      (0.037)        (0.036)     (0.036)          (0.048)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts        0.097**            0.080**        0.112***        0.205**               0.170**                 0.103***             0.028        0.059*         -0.005     0.060**           -0.003
                                                         (0.037)           (0.038)         (0.038)         (0.083)              (0.081)                  (0.038)            (0.038)      (0.038)        (0.037)     (0.036)          (0.048)
                      Treatment: Both                   0.150***           0.100**        0.171***        0.297***               0.098                  0.144***           0.130***      0.079**        0.067**      0.033            0.023
                                                         (0.037)           (0.038)         (0.037)         (0.088)              (0.083)                  (0.038)            (0.037)      (0.037)        (0.038)     (0.038)          (0.048)
                      Control group mean                  0.459             0.557          0.416            -0.25                -0.177                   0.459              0.39         0.599          0.435        0.642           0.636

                      Treatment: Climate Policies          0.043           0.092**        0.119***        0.237***               0.018                   0.061**           0.070**        0.019         0.055*        0.045         0.087**
     Canada                                              (0.032)           (0.031)         (0.032)         (0.067)              (0.070)                  (0.032)           (0.031)       (0.031)        (0.031)      (0.030)         (0.042)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          -0.011            -0.004          0.014           0.003                -0.021                   0.001             -0.015        0.006          0.016        -0.008        0.079**
                                                         (0.032)           (0.031)         (0.031)         (0.068)              (0.069)                  (0.032)           (0.031)       (0.031)        (0.032)      (0.031)         (0.041)
                      Treatment: Both                      0.037           0.078**        0.100***         0.203**                0.073                   0.050*           0.061**        0.016         0.068**       0.045         0.136***
                                                         (0.032)           (0.031)         (0.031)         (0.064)              (0.067)                  (0.032)           (0.031)       (0.031)        (0.032)      (0.030)         (0.039)
                      Control group mean                  0.422             0.546          0.308           -0.448                -0.183                   0.433             0.435         0.666          0.594        0.669           0.685

                      Treatment: Climate Policies        0.052*             0.002         0.123***        0.181**              -0.119**                   0.029             -0.002       -0.082**       -0.052*      -0.001           -0.049
     Denmark                                             (0.031)           (0.031)         (0.030)         (0.061)              (0.061)                  (0.031)           (0.031)        (0.030)       (0.031)     (0.029)          (0.042)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts        0.078**             0.045          0.063**         0.154**                0.013                  0.096**             0.019         0.012         -0.018       0.012            0.002
                                                         (0.032)           (0.031)         (0.030)         (0.062)              (0.061)                  (0.031)           (0.031)        (0.030)       (0.031)     (0.029)          (0.041)
                      Treatment: Both                   0.110***           0.083**        0.185***        0.279***               -0.070                  0.082**           0.098**         0.012         -0.006     0.060**            0.025
                                                         (0.031)           (0.031)         (0.031)         (0.065)              (0.062)                  (0.032)           (0.031)        (0.030)       (0.031)     (0.029)          (0.043)
                      Control group mean                  0.274             0.584          0.283           -0.397                -0.214                   0.419             0.318         0.582          0.462        0.58            0.648

                      Treatment: Climate Policies       0.068**             0.034          0.082**          0.043                -0.047                   0.034             -0.016        -0.034         0.007       0.001            -0.042
     France                                              (0.034)           (0.036)         (0.034)         (0.066)              (0.073)                  (0.036)           (0.034)       (0.037)        (0.036)     (0.036)          (0.050)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.040             0.044         0.068**           0.018                0.080                    0.004             0.004         0.009         0.059*       0.039            0.025
                                                         (0.033)           (0.036)         (0.033)         (0.064)              (0.075)                  (0.036)           (0.034)       (0.036)        (0.036)     (0.036)          (0.048)
                      Treatment: Both                   0.113***           0.050*         0.156***         0.133**              0.106*                    0.037            0.065**         0.015         -0.001     0.082**           -0.003
                                                         (0.035)           (0.037)         (0.036)         (0.072)              (0.080)                  (0.038)           (0.036)       (0.038)        (0.038)     (0.037)          (0.052)
                      Control group mean                  0.306             0.419          0.272           -0.687                -0.112                   0.406             0.315         0.493          0.541        0.638           0.608

                      Treatment: Climate Policies         0.041             0.037         0.150***        0.186**                0.036                   0.061**           0.090**        -0.004         0.020        -0.015          -0.017
     Germany                                             (0.029)           (0.031)         (0.030)         (0.068)              (0.067)                  (0.031)           (0.030)       (0.031)        (0.031)      (0.031)         (0.044)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.027            0.051*          0.051*          0.109*               0.123*                     0.030           0.062**       0.053*          0.019         0.017           0.003
                                                         (0.028)           (0.030)         (0.028)         (0.065)              (0.067)                  (0.030)           (0.029)       (0.030)        (0.030)      (0.029)         (0.044)
                      Treatment: Both                     0.031             0.037         0.122***        0.230***               0.091                    0.052*           0.069**       0.055*         0.056*        -0.016           0.023
                                                         (0.029)           (0.031)         (0.030)         (0.066)              (0.065)                  (0.031)           (0.030)       (0.031)        (0.031)      (0.031)         (0.045)
                      Control group mean                  0.541             0.789          0.465            0.156                0.394                    0.573             0.378          0.76          0.407        0.787           0.709

59   Italy
                      Treatment: Climate Policies       0.087**
                                                         (0.032)
                                                                            0.034
                                                                           (0.025)
                                                                                          0.160***
                                                                                           (0.031)
                                                                                                          0.257***
                                                                                                           (0.049)
                                                                                                                                 0.013
                                                                                                                                (0.048)
                                                                                                                                                         0.078**
                                                                                                                                                         (0.031)
                                                                                                                                                                           0.087**
                                                                                                                                                                            (0.031)
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.034
                                                                                                                                                                                         (0.027)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.056*
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (0.032)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.026)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (0.040)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.024             0.001           0.038           0.072                0.020                    0.037              0.024        -0.036        0.054*        -0.018          0.020
                                                         (0.032)           (0.026)         (0.032)         (0.053)              (0.050)                  (0.031)            (0.031)      (0.028)        (0.032)      (0.027)         (0.040)
                      Treatment: Both                   0.115***            0.030         0.186***        0.289***               0.069                   0.095**           0.133***       -0.005        0.090**        0.013         0.076**
                                                         (0.031)           (0.025)         (0.031)         (0.053)              (0.050)                  (0.031)            (0.030)      (0.027)        (0.031)      (0.026)         (0.039)
                      Control group mean                  0.409             0.487          0.349           -0.478                -0.393                   0.503             0.351         0.644          0.472        0.689           0.583

                      Treatment: Climate Policies        0.063**            0.040         0.098**         0.138**                0.033                   0.088**           0.079**         0.018         -0.007       -0.018          -0.013
     Japan                                               (0.032)           (0.033)         (0.032)         (0.056)              (0.061)                  (0.032)           (0.032)       (0.031)        (0.033)      (0.031)         (0.046)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.005             0.026           0.010           0.045               0.105*                    0.001             0.026         -0.023         0.016        -0.027          0.009
                                                         (0.032)           (0.032)         (0.031)         (0.053)              (0.061)                  (0.032)           (0.031)       (0.031)        (0.033)      (0.030)         (0.045)
                      Treatment: Both                    0.080**            0.039         0.130***        0.193***              0.108*                    0.038            0.060**         0.003         0.045        -0.044          -0.056
                                                         (0.032)           (0.032)         (0.032)         (0.054)              (0.060)                  (0.032)           (0.031)       (0.031)        (0.032)      (0.031)         (0.045)
                      Control group mean                  0.436             0.577          0.349           -0.365                -0.066                   0.479              0.27         0.605          0.435        0.751           0.717

                      Treatment: Climate Policies         0.035             0.046         0.090**           0.078                0.089                    0.031            0.111***       0.030         0.050*        -0.043          0.009
     Poland                                              (0.032)           (0.031)        (0.031)          (0.060)              (0.061)                  (0.032)            (0.029)      (0.031)        (0.031)      (0.029)         (0.041)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.042            0.051*         0.053*            0.058               0.117**                  0.064**             0.032        0.027          0.036         0.013          -0.016
                                                         (0.032)           (0.031)        (0.031)          (0.059)              (0.058)                  (0.032)            (0.029)      (0.031)        (0.032)      (0.028)         (0.043)
                      Treatment: Both                     0.040             0.032         0.096**          0.099*                0.105*                   0.030            0.128***       0.012         0.085**       -0.033          -0.013
                                                         (0.032)           (0.032)        (0.032)          (0.062)              (0.059)                  (0.032)            (0.030)      (0.031)        (0.032)      (0.029)         (0.042)
                      Control group mean                  0.519             0.686          0.526            0.023                -0.162                   0.587             0.423         0.519          0.423        0.709           0.716

                      Treatment: Climate Policies         -0.025            -0.007         0.071**         0.084*                -0.080                    0.021            0.029         -0.025        0.067**        0.016          -0.007
     South Korea                                         (0.038)           (0.034)         (0.037)         (0.060)              (0.066)                  (0.037)           (0.037)       (0.037)        (0.038)      (0.034)         (0.049)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          -0.034            -0.022          -0.013          0.022                0.049                    -0.019            -0.007        0.012          0.026        -0.016           0.006
                                                         (0.037)           (0.035)         (0.038)         (0.055)              (0.068)                  (0.038)           (0.037)       (0.037)        (0.038)      (0.035)         (0.048)
                      Treatment: Both                      0.045             0.010        0.132***        0.195***               0.028                    0.026            0.094**        0.024         0.100**       -0.005          -0.031
                                                         (0.036)           (0.034)         (0.036)         (0.056)              (0.063)                  (0.036)           (0.037)       (0.037)        (0.037)      (0.034)         (0.046)
                      Control group mean                  0.544             0.703          0.433           -0.175                0.116                    0.562             0.391         0.643          0.443        0.736           0.707

                      Treatment: Climate Policies         0.025             0.025         0.103***          0.070                0.006                  0.060**            0.071**        0.004         0.056*        0.025           0.067
     Spain                                               (0.031)           (0.028)         (0.031)         (0.059)              (0.057)                  (0.031)            (0.031)      (0.030)        (0.031)      (0.027)         (0.048)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.012             0.011           0.018           -0.004               0.062                    0.043              0.008        0.003          0.034        0.023           0.026
                                                         (0.031)           (0.028)         (0.031)         (0.057)              (0.056)                  (0.031)            (0.030)      (0.030)        (0.031)      (0.027)         (0.050)
                      Treatment: Both                    0.092**          0.088***        0.133***        0.230***              0.138**                 0.094***           0.122***      0.077**        0.080**       0.036          0.071*
                                                         (0.030)           (0.026)         (0.030)         (0.056)              (0.054)                  (0.030)            (0.030)      (0.028)        (0.030)      (0.026)         (0.046)
                      Control group mean                  0.456             0.559          0.358           -0.248                -0.182                   0.532              0.39         0.663          0.473        0.666           0.705

                      Treatment: Climate Policies         0.037             0.022         0.104***          0.098                0.026                    0.000            0.078**        -0.024         0.035        -0.046         -0.075*
     United Kingdom                                      (0.031)           (0.030)         (0.030)         (0.062)              (0.067)                  (0.031)            (0.030)      (0.030)        (0.031)      (0.030)         (0.042)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.021             0.022           0.009           0.035                0.027                    -0.023             0.044        -0.029         0.028         0.000          -0.021
                                                         (0.031)           (0.031)         (0.029)         (0.062)              (0.067)                  (0.031)            (0.031)      (0.030)        (0.031)      (0.029)         (0.042)
                      Treatment: Both                    0.093**           0.069**        0.167***        0.289***              0.138**                    0.029           0.125***        0.001        0.098**       -0.021         -0.075*
                                                         (0.031)           (0.030)         (0.030)         (0.061)              (0.067)                  (0.031)            (0.030)      (0.029)        (0.031)      (0.029)         (0.042)
                      Control group mean                  0.42              0.523          0.343            -0.33                -0.305                   0.468             0.358         0.504          0.343        0.587           0.547

                      Treatment: Climate Policies          0.031            -0.010        0.083**           0.010                -0.023                    -0.026           0.040        0.056**        0.064**       -0.025          -0.026
     United States                                       (0.032)           (0.032)         (0.032)         (0.075)              (0.077)                   (0.032)          (0.031)       (0.033)        (0.032)      (0.032)         (0.046)
                      Treatment: Climate Impacts          -0.019          -0.081**          -0.006         -0.108*              -0.124*                  -0.078**           -0.038        -0.022         -0.030       -0.034          0.004
                                                         (0.033)           (0.033)         (0.032)         (0.070)              (0.078)                   (0.033)          (0.032)       (0.034)        (0.032)      (0.033)         (0.045)
                      Treatment: Both                      0.007             0.010        0.095***          0.020                -0.019                    -0.005           0.018        0.079**         0.024        -0.007          0.014
                                                         (0.033)           (0.034)         (0.034)         (0.076)              (0.078)                   (0.033)          (0.032)       (0.033)        (0.033)      (0.033)         (0.049)



     Note: The table shows the results of regressions of variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic characteristics. Only the
     coefficients for the treatment effects are displayed. Dependent variables are indicator variables equal to 1 if the respondent
     (somewhat or strongly) supports each of the main climate policies (columns 1-3 and 6-11), or standardized indices (4-5). Robust
     standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.
          Table A17: Effects of the treatments on main outcomes – Middle-income countries

                                                                                                                                  Support or Agreement
                                                 Ban on              Green       Carbon tax       Fairness of        Willingness to               Ban on            Tax on         Ban on           Tax        Subsidies      Mandatory
                                             combustion-engine   infrastructure     with         main climate     adopt climate-friendly   combustion-engine cars    fossil    polluting cars        on     to low-carbon   and subsidized
                                                   cars             program     cash transfers   policies index      behavior index           with alternatives      fuels     in city centers    flights    technologies     insulation
                                                    (1)                (2)           (3)               (4)                 (5)                       (6)              (7)            (8)            (9)          (10)            (11)
               Control group mean                   0.6              0.762          0.471            0.202                0.112                     0.59             0.349         0.644          0.388         0.769

               Treatment: Climate Policies         0.048             0.018         0.127***        0.189***               0.043                   0.085**           0.087**       0.089**        0.105***     0.073**
Brazil                                            (0.043)           (0.037)         (0.043)         (0.077)              (0.079)                  (0.042)            (0.042)      (0.040)         (0.043)     (0.034)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.041             0.037          0.062**          0.092                0.069                   0.091**           0.099**        0.031         0.107***       0.029
                                                  (0.041)           (0.034)         (0.042)         (0.077)              (0.076)                  (0.040)            (0.042)      (0.040)         (0.042)     (0.035)
               Treatment: Both                    0.096**            0.038         0.225***        0.237***               0.077                   0.093**           0.165***      0.077**        0.145***      0.046*
                                                  (0.042)           (0.036)         (0.041)         (0.078)              (0.075)                  (0.041)            (0.042)      (0.041)         (0.043)     (0.036)
               Control group mean                  0.713             0.811          0.792            0.356                0.327                    0.778             0.576         0.731          0.606         0.742           0.805

               Treatment: Climate Policies         0.037             0.018         0.087***        0.091**                0.031                    0.037            0.076**      0.055**         0.105***      0.045           0.057*
China                                             (0.042)           (0.037)         (0.035)         (0.057)              (0.070)                  (0.038)           (0.046)       (0.040)         (0.044)     (0.041)          (0.047)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts        0.060**            0.057**         0.075**        0.085**                 0.010                   0.027            0.088**       0.056**           0.045      0.033            0.028
                                                  (0.041)           (0.034)         (0.033)         (0.058)              (0.070)                  (0.039)           (0.046)       (0.041)         (0.046)     (0.043)          (0.055)
               Treatment: Both                   0.097***           0.072**         0.057**        0.175***               -0.014                   0.038             0.056*      0.091***          -0.021     0.063**          0.076**
                                                  (0.039)           (0.035)         (0.034)         (0.059)              (0.066)                  (0.039)           (0.046)       (0.039)         (0.046)     (0.041)          (0.045)
               Control group mean                  0.768             0.789          0.702             0.6                 0.502                    0.759              0.63         0.729          0.626         0.665

               Treatment: Climate Policies          0.031           0.043**        0.075***          0.070                -0.027                   0.032             0.012        0.040*          0.007       0.080***
India                                             (0.033)           (0.030)         (0.034)         (0.067)              (0.066)                  (0.034)           (0.038)       (0.034)        (0.038)       (0.037)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          -0.027             0.031          0.013           -0.053               -0.036                   0.016             -0.027        0.015          -0.016       0.042*
                                                  (0.034)           (0.031)         (0.035)         (0.065)              (0.067)                  (0.034)           (0.038)       (0.035)        (0.037)       (0.038)
               Treatment: Both                      0.019            0.035*         0.059**          0.021                 0.061                   0.036            0.073**       0.064**        0.058**      0.108***
                                                  (0.034)           (0.031)         (0.034)         (0.072)              (0.065)                  (0.033)           (0.038)       (0.033)        (0.037)       (0.036)
               Control group mean                  0.641             0.794          0.658            0.394                0.246                    0.715             0.569         0.846          0.665         0.785

               Treatment: Climate Policies        0.048**            0.016         0.073**         0.138***               -0.002                   0.013            0.086***       0.000          0.025         0.024
Indonesia                                         (0.028)           (0.026)         (0.028)         (0.049)              (0.052)                  (0.027)            (0.028)      (0.023)        (0.027)      (0.025)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.036             0.018           0.003          0.078*               0.070*                   0.040*              0.030        0.011          0.010        -0.002
                                                  (0.027)           (0.024)         (0.027)         (0.047)              (0.050)                  (0.026)            (0.027)      (0.022)        (0.027)      (0.025)
               Treatment: Both                     0.046*           0.064**        0.093***        0.180***                0.068                  0.061**            0.077**       0.021          0.022       0.042**
                                                  (0.027)           (0.024)         (0.026)         (0.046)              (0.048)                  (0.027)            (0.027)      (0.022)        (0.027)      (0.024)
               Control group mean                  0.669             0.838          0.556            0.112                0.23                     0.663             0.408         0.725          0.508         0.666

               Treatment: Climate Policies         0.034             0.024         0.064**           0.057                0.086*                   0.050*           0.067**        0.007          0.046       0.103***
Mexico                                            (0.040)           (0.031)         (0.042)         (0.074)              (0.068)                  (0.040)            (0.042)      (0.038)        (0.042)       (0.037)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.012             0.003           0.034          0.093*               0.140**                  0.060**             0.010        0.028          0.007        0.085**
                                                  (0.040)           (0.032)         (0.041)         (0.067)              (0.069)                  (0.039)            (0.041)      (0.038)        (0.042)       (0.037)
               Treatment: Both                    0.076**            0.007         0.147***         0.122**              0.101**                    0.036           0.123***       0.029          0.034       0.101***
                                                  (0.040)           (0.031)         (0.041)         (0.070)              (0.073)                  (0.041)            (0.043)      (0.038)        (0.043)       (0.038)
               Control group mean                  0.521             0.725          0.518            0.008                -0.07                    0.615             0.376         0.652          0.425         0.745           0.727

               Treatment: Climate Policies       0.110***            0.019         0.089**         0.197***               0.071                  0.109***           0.133***      0.074**        0.128***       0.026         0.131***
South Africa                                      (0.040)           (0.037)         (0.040)         (0.071)              (0.076)                  (0.038)            (0.039)      (0.037)         (0.040)     (0.034)          (0.044)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.030            0.050*          0.051*           0.037               0.152**                   0.002              0.034        -0.004          0.047       -0.003          0.072**
                                                  (0.041)           (0.035)         (0.041)         (0.073)              (0.075)                  (0.041)            (0.039)      (0.040)         (0.041)     (0.036)          (0.050)
               Treatment: Both                   0.138***           0.069**        0.109***        0.237***              0.126**                  0.084**           0.157***      0.064**         0.075**     0.080**           0.025
                                                  (0.041)           (0.036)         (0.041)         (0.073)              (0.077)                  (0.040)            (0.041)      (0.039)         (0.042)     (0.033)          (0.053)
               Control group mean                  0.62              0.759          0.559            0.164                -0.028                    0.64             0.518         0.602          0.454         0.752           0.748

               Treatment: Climate Policies        0.062**            -0.001        0.112***        0.271***              0.157**                  0.049*            0.142***     0.120***        0.160***     0.071**         0.133***
Turkey                                            (0.041)           (0.039)         (0.043)         (0.081)              (0.083)                  (0.041)            (0.043)      (0.041)         (0.043)      (0.036)         (0.049)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          -0.001            -0.011        -0.082**          -0.069               -0.026                  -0.047*             -0.007       -0.026          -0.041       -0.024          0.024
                                                  (0.042)           (0.038)         (0.042)         (0.086)              (0.089)                  (0.042)            (0.044)      (0.043)         (0.042)      (0.039)         (0.058)
               Treatment: Both                    0.072**             0.019         0.073**         0.134**              0.129**                   0.048               0.021       -0.020           0.029     -0.062**          0.032
                                                  (0.041)           (0.038)         (0.044)         (0.080)              (0.084)                  (0.040)            (0.045)      (0.044)         (0.043)      (0.041)         (0.057)
               Control group mean                  0.576             0.689          0.391            -0.13                -0.433                   0.631             0.273         0.668          0.359         0.684           0.754

               Treatment: Climate Policies         0.045            0.063**        0.184***        0.235***               0.048                     0.002           0.184***       0.042         0.129***       0.000           0.037
Ukraine                                           (0.046)           (0.041)         (0.046)         (0.087)              (0.084)                  (0.046)            (0.044)      (0.041)         (0.046)      (0.043)         (0.057)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts          0.012             0.002           0.035           0.058                0.059                    -0.001            0.062*       -0.058*          0.011        -0.014          0.051
                                                  (0.046)           (0.042)         (0.044)         (0.086)              (0.080)                  (0.043)            (0.042)      (0.041)         (0.045)      (0.042)         (0.053)
               Treatment: Both                     0.032             0.046         0.210***        0.274***              0.121*                     0.024           0.166***      0.069**         0.076**        0.036          0.005
                                                  (0.045)           (0.040)         (0.044)         (0.090)              (0.086)                  (0.044)            (0.042)      (0.038)         (0.044)      (0.042)         (0.059)




Note: The table shows the results of regressions of variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic char-
acteristics. Only the coefficients for the treatment effects are displayed. Dependent variables are indicator
variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each of the main climate policies
(columns 1-3 and 6-11), or standardized indices (4-5). Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1;
∗∗
   p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                                                             60
               Table A18: Effects of the treatments on expectations about the future

                                                                    Agreement
                               Net-zero     Unabated CC             Unabated CC         World will   Humans will
                               by 2100      will negatively           will cause        be richer     halt CC
                              is feasible   affect oneself     extinction of humanity    in 2100       by 2100
                                 (1)             (2)                    (3)                (4)           (5)
Control group mean              0.362           0.471                  0.637              0.273         0.48
                                     ∗∗∗            ∗∗∗                    ∗∗∗
Treatment: Climate impacts     0.051           0.039                  0.026              −0.003        0.026∗∗∗
                               (0.008)         (0.008)                (0.008)            (0.007)       (0.008)
Treatment: Climate policy      0.024∗∗∗        0.018∗∗                0.020∗∗            0.015∗∗       0.052∗∗∗
                               (0.008)         (0.008)                (0.008)            (0.007)       (0.008)
Treatment: Both                0.061∗∗∗        0.032∗∗∗               0.035∗∗∗           0.016∗∗       0.068∗∗∗
                               (0.008)         (0.008)                (0.008)            (0.007)       (0.008)
Observations                   40,680           40,680                40,680             40,680        40,680
R2                             0.080            0.120                 0.061              0.168         0.108


Note: The table shows the results of regressions of variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic char-
acteristics. Only the coefficients for the treatment effects are displayed. Dependent variables are indicator
variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) agree with the statements. Robust standard
errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                          61
A-5      Country appendices
Unweighted result link
   Here is a link to the appendix for unweighted results: https://socialeconomicslab.
org/oecd_climate_change_unweighted/

Country Appendix links
   Here is a link to the appendix for each country: https://socialeconomicslab.org/
research/working-papers/fighting-climate-change-international-attitudes-toward-
climate-policies/


A-6      Questionnaire
Survey links
   Here are links to the questionnaires of each country:

   • Australia: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_0HrxQpnzN85dR2K?Q_Language=
     EN-GB

   • Brazil: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_bjhZJbHPlU82OtE?Q_Language=
     PT-BR

   • Canada (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_9FveryHcJFsYfoq?
     Q_Language=EN

   • Canada (French): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_9FveryHcJFsYfoq?
     Q_Language=FR-CA

   • China: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3ad13wqkW9bBvfw?Q_Language=
     ZN

   • Denmark: https://cebi.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_38ApIc5Y6L1pjBY?Q_Language=
     DA

   • France: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8CfmrUXhHRZJT14?Q_Language=
     FR

   • Germany: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_0cWAJE2W8bdBPkG?Q_Language=
     DE

   • India (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_07HaTFCaGAklSrI?
     Q_Language=EN




                                            62
   • India (Hindi): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_07HaTFCaGAklSrI?Q_
     Language=HI

   • Indonesia: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3mV8QUArjqZ0htc?Q_Language=
     ID

   • Italy: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_bpiASf7NzB8u0wS?Q_Language=
     IT

   • Japan: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_6FE48OtnfRWabRQ?Q_Language=
     JA

   • Mexico: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_8csgJ7Uuymp7irY?Q_Language=
     ES

   • Poland: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_7Qc5KCPcIVv5qFE?Q_Language=
     PL

   • South Africa (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_bvC37FRXIyGewKi?
     Q_Language=EN-US

   • South Africa (Zulu): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_bvC37FRXIyGewKi?
     Q_Language=ZU

   • South Korea: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_bwNjSPYjPojkuk6?Q_
     Language=KO

   • Spain: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_0d0TZD6KT4L2SOi?Q_Language=
     ES-ES

   • Turkey: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3krmyMYslsDFBI2?Q_Language=
     TR

   • Ukraine (Ukrainian): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3gdsY6iHVO6IKNg?
     Q_Language=UK

   • Ukraine (Russian): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3gdsY6iHVO6IKNg?
     Q_Language=RU

   • United Kingdom: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_40Dm4ZTOR8mlzaS?
     Q_Language=EN-GB

   • United States: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1ST7y8mzlEib9iu

Below is the benchmark questionnaire, with country-specific variations indicated in square
brackets.




                                           63
Consent
 1. This is a survey conducted for academic research purposes by researchers from Harvard
    University and the OECD. It will take approximately 25 minutes to complete. The
    survey data is used for research purposes only, and the research is non-partisan. You
    will be compensated for this survey if you complete the survey and your responses
    pass our survey quality checks. These checks use statistical control methods to detect
    incoherent and rushed responses. It is very important for the validity of our research
    that you answer honestly and read the questions carefully before answering.

   The survey collects personal data, including socioeconomic characteristics and political
   views. All of the answers you provide will remain anonymous and be treated with
   absolute confidentiality. The personal data we collect will be transferred and stored
   on secure servers. Only researchers working on the project will have access to the
   anonymized data. Your participation in this survey is completely voluntary. You are
   entitled to choose not to take part. If at first you agree to take part, you can later
   change your mind. Your decision will not be held against you in any way. Your refusal
   to participate will not result in any consequences or any loss of benefits that you are
   otherwise entitled to receive. You can ask any questions before you decide whether to
   participate.
   If you have questions, concerns, or complaints, or think the research has offended you,
   you can contact the research team at social.economics.research2020@gmail.com or call
   the Harvard University Area Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) at +1 (617) 496-
   2847. The OECD is committed to protecting the personal data it processes, in accor-
   dance with its Personal Data Protection Rules (https://www.oecd.org/general/data-
   protection.htm). If you have further queries or complaints related to the processing
   of your personal data, please contact the Data Protection Officer (DPO@oecd.org). If
   you need further assistance in resolving claims related to personal data protection you
   can contact the Data Protection Commissioner (DPC@oecd.org).
   Do you agree to participate in the survey?
   Yes; No

Background questions
 2. What is your gender?
    Male; Female; Other
 3. How old are you?
    Below 18; 18 to 24; 25 to 34; 35 to 49; 50 to 64; 65 and above
 4. What is your zipcode?
 5. What type of agglomeration do you live in?
    A rural area; A small town (5,000 - 20,000 inhabitants); A large town (20,000 - 50,000




                                          64
    inhabitants); A small city or its suburbs (50,000 - 250,000 inhabitants); A large city
    or its suburbs (250,000 - 3,000,000 inhabitants); A very large city or its suburbs (more
    than 3 million inhabitants)

 6. What is the nationality of your parents? (Multiple answers allowed) [For the U.S. and
    South Africa, we asked the ethnicity instead; and for India, the religion.]
    [Country]; [Continent except Country]; Other; Prefer not to say

 7. Do you live with your partner (if you have one)?
    Yes; No or I don’t have a partner

 8. What is your marital status?
    Single; Married; Divorced or legally separated; Widowed

 9. How many people are in your household? The household includes: you, the members
    of your family who live with you (including children), and your dependants. This
    excludes flatmates.
    1; 2; 3; 4; 5 or more

10. How many children below 14 live with you?
    0; 1; 2; 3; 4 or more

11. What is the highest level of education you have completed?
    No schooling completed; Primary school; Lower secondary school; Vocational degree;
    High school; College degree; Master’s degree or above

12. What is your employment status?
    Full-time employed; Part-time employed; Self-employed; Student; Retired; Unemployed
    (searching for a job); Inactive (not searching for a job)

13. (If “Full-time employed”, “Part-time employed”, or “Self-employed” to 10) If you work
    in any of the following industries, please select one describing your industry best.
    Oil, gas or coal; Other energy industries; Cement production; Construction; Automo-
    bile manufacturing; Iron and steel manufacturing; Chemical manufacturing; Plastics
    production; Pulp and paper production; Farming (crop or livestock); Air transport (e.g.
    airlines); No, none of the above

14. (If “Retired”, “Unemployed (searching for a job)”, “Inactive (not searching for a job)”
    to 10) If in your last job you worked in any of the following industries, please select
    one describing your industry best
    Oil, gas or coal; Other energy industries; Cement production; Construction; Automo-
    bile manufacturing; Iron and steel manufacturing; Chemical manufacturing; Plastics
    production; Pulp and paper production; Farming (crop or livestock); Air transport (e.g.
    airlines); No, none of the above




                                           65
15. (If “Full-time employed”, “Part-time employed”, or “Self-employed” to 10) What is
    the main activity of the company or organization where you work?
    Agriculture, forestry, fishing, hunting; Mining, quarrying, oil, gas, extraction; Utili-
    ties; Construction; Manufacturing; Wholesale trade; Retail trade; Transportation and
    warehousing; Information technology (IT); Finance and insurance; Real estate and
    rental and leasing; Professional, scientific and technical; Management of companies
    and enterprises; Administrative and support activities; Waste management and reme-
    diation; Educational services; Healthcare and social assistance; Arts, entertainment
    and recreation; Accommodation and food services; Other services; Public administra-
    tion; Homemaker; None of the above / Other

16. (If “Retired”, “Unemployed (searching for a job)”, “Inactive (not searching for a job)”
    to 10) What was the main activity of the company or organization at which you last
    worked?
    Agriculture, forestry, fishing, hunting; Mining, quarrying, oil, gas, extraction; Utili-
    ties; Construction; Manufacturing; Wholesale trade; Retail trade; Transportation and
    warehousing; Information technology (IT); Finance and insurance; Real estate and
    rental and leasing; Professional, scientific and technical; Management of companies
    and enterprises; Administrative and support activities; Waste management and reme-
    diation; Educational services; Healthcare and social assistance; Arts, entertainment
    and recreation; Accommodation and food services; Other services; Public administra-
    tion; Homemaker; None of the above / Other

17. What was the annual income of your household in 2019 (before withholding tax)?
    [Depending on the country, we ask this question in monthly or yearly terms. Except
    in the U.S., we adjust the quartile thresholds by multiplying them by the number of
    consumption units in the households.]
    [quartiles thresholds are given for the U.S. ] Less than [$35,000] ; between [$35,000] -
    [$70,000]; between [$70,000] - [$120,000]; More than [$120,000]

18. Have you or a member of your household been laid off or had to take a cut in your
    salary or wages due to the COVID-19 pandemic?
    Yes; No

19. Are you a homeowner or a tenant? (Multiple answers are possible)
    Tenant; Owner; Landlord renting out property

20. What is the estimated value of your assets, or the assets of your household if you are
    married (in [currency])? Include here all your possessions (home, car, savings, etc.)
    net of debt. For example, if you own a house worth [$300,000] and you have [$100,000]
    left to repay on your mortgage, your assets are [$200,000]. I estimate my assets net of
    debt to be:
    [Quintiles thresholds are given for the U.S. ] Less than [$0]; Between [$0] - [$4,000];
    Between [$4,000] - [$120,000]; Between [$120,000] - [$380,000]; More than [$380,000]




                                           66
Political views
 21. To what extent are you interested in politics?
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal

 22. Are you a member of an environmental organization?
     Yes; No

 23. Do you have any relatives who are environmentalists?
     Yes; No

 24. (In China, the next three questions were not asked, and the other questions from this
     block were asked at the end of the survey.) Did you vote in the [last] election?
     Yes; No: I don’t have the right to vote in [Country]; Prefer not to say

 25. (If “Yes” to 24) Which candidate did you vote for in the [last] election?
     [Main candidates or parties]; Other; Prefer not to say

 26. (If not “Yes” to 24) Even if you did NOT vote in the [last] election, please indicate the
     candidate that you were most likely to have voted for or who represents your views
     more closely.
     [Main candidates or parties]; Other; Prefer not to say

 27. On economic policy matters, where do you see yourself on a scale from 1 to 5, where 1
     is Left and 5 is Right? [in the U.S., Denmark and France, the formulation was different:
     “On economic policy matters, where do you see yourself on the liberal/conservative
     spectrum?” and the answers were Very liberal; Liberal; Moderate; Conservative; Very
     conservative; Prefer not to say]
     1; 2; 3; 4; 5

 28. [In the U.S. only] What do you consider to be your political affiliation, as of today?
     Republican; Democrat; Independent; Other; Non-Affiliated

Household composition and energy characteristics
   (In Brazil, Mexico, India, and Indonesia, the next two questions on heating were not
asked.)

 29. What is the main way you heat your home?
     Electricity; Gas; Heating oil; Coal; Wood, solar, geothermal, or heat pump; District
     heating; Don’t know, or prefer not to say

 30. In a typical month [or year, depending on countries], how much do you spend on
     heating for your accommodation?
     [Numbers are given for the U.S. ] I don’t know; Less than [$20]; [$20]-[$75]; [$75]-
     [$125]; [$125]-[$200]; [$200]-[$250]; [$250]-[$300]; More than [$300]




                                             67
 31. Good insulation can keep a building warm in the winter and cool in the summer. How
     do you rate the insulation of your accommodation?
     Very poor; Poor; Fair; Good; Excellent

 32. In a typical month, how much do you spend on gas for driving?
     [Numbers are given for the U.S. ] Less than [$5]; [$5]-[$25]; [$25]-[$75]; [$75]-[$125];
     [$125]-[$175]; [$175]-[$225]; More than [$225]

 33. How many round-trip flights did you take between 2017 and 2019?
     0; 1; 2; 3 or 4; 5 to 7; 8 to 14; 15 or more

 34. How often do you eat [beef / India: meat]?
     Never; Less than once a week; One to four times per week; Almost or at least daily

 35. Which mode of transport did you mainly use for each of the following trips in 2019?

        • Commute to work or place of study
        • Grocery shopping
        • Recreational and leisure activities (excluding holiday travel)

     Car or Motorbike; Public Transport; Walking or Cycling; Other; Not Applicable

 36. How do you rate the availability (ease of access and frequency) of public transportation
     where you live?
     Very poor; Poor; Fair; Good; Excellent

Open-ended question
 37. When thinking about climate change, what are your main considerations? What should
     [country] government do regarding climate change? Please write as much as you would
     like, your response will be very useful.

Video treatments
   Randomized groups of respondents see one of two videos, both videos, or neither.

Climate impacts video
    Recent academic studies have assessed the effects of climate change in [country]. We will
now show you a 3 minute video (with sound) that summarizes the results of these studies.
Please pay attention to the information provided as you will be asked questions about it
later. Do not skip forward or close the page while the video is running. Please proceed to
the next page when you are ready.
[Here are the links to the video of each country:]




                                             68
• Australia: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_6zC4wlmsEXrDnYq

• Brazil: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  57lND3lSz5SL4oK

• Canada (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_9zxyasw9TTVFqx8

• Canada (French): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_1QSWUKIYiJDNxfE

• China: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  9vHesDcevMYMffU

• Denmark: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_dgnXQoN84vq2YXs

• France: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
  F_9YacInO3B7TVcGy

• Germany: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_3NNS6u7MbEm738y

• India (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_b9lU7goEX1i0FvM

• India (Hindi): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_bvLcTKdd7WG8SZ8

• Indonesia: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_9QQCwEicwdwYp94

• Italy: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  1GpaU9AOp0uA246

• Japan: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  e3BFKqjnqsS0waW

• Mexico: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
  F_cSdiidvle1QaekS

• Poland: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
  F_6SahJCEqAUd5bdc

• South Africa (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/
  File.php?F=F_8iAWsyQlvy07iJg




                                    69
   • South Africa (Zulu): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/
     File.php?F=F_4NHM2UHj6XttP70
   • South Korea: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
     F=F_2071FHigxMNs2rk
   • Spain: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
     4NsVOyDmpposo3I
   • Turkey: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
     F_8AKIwJiwMxyQnyu
   • Ukraine (Ukrainian): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/
     File.php?F=F_1Bz6VaDS6IzAMGq
   • Ukraine (Russian): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_bemd3trrg7wgFym
   • United Kingdom: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_bj8yT5eiDpZCR82
   • United States: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_cT8837yWYLScqLs
[Below is the script used for the U.S.]
Over the past decades, humans have been burning more and more fossil fuels like coal, gas
or oil. Burning fossil fuels releases CO2 into the atmosphere. Today, the concentration
of CO2 in the atmosphere is higher than at any point in time over the last 800,000 years.
And it’s the concentration of greenhouse gases like CO2 that drives global temperature.
Climate scientists agree: the build-up of greenhouse gases released by human activity in the
atmosphere causes climate change. A rapid transition away from fossil fuels is possible and
could contain global warming below +[2°C / 3.6°F], meaning 3.6°F. But if greenhouse gas
emissions continue on their current trend, the average global warming will be +[4°C / 8°F]
in 2100 and +[7°C / 13°F] in 2200. This may seem far away, but climate change is already
affecting us right now in the places where we live.
   • Because of climate change, in the U.S. hurricanes have become increasingly intense
     and cause much more harm and damages. Hurricane Katrina caused more than 1,800
     deaths and more than 100 billion dollars in damages.
   • The amount of air pollution generated by burning fossil fuels is already responsible for
     200,000 deaths in the U.S. each year.
   • Heatwaves are becoming longer, more frequent, and more severe. In the absence of
     ambitious action against climate change, the U.S. will experience 70 days of extreme
     heat per year (that is six times more than in the past) and up to 135 days a year in a
     State like Texas.




                                             70
   • In the South and in the Midwest, agricultural yields will decrease because of the heat.

   • With the mix of more hurricanes, rising sea levels, more heatwaves, and lower agricul-
     tural output, the average income in Southern states will be 10 to 20% lower than it
     could be.

   • In the North-East, the risk of heavy rain has already increased by 55%. More severe
     storms and rising sea levels will lead to more flooding.

   • In the West, hotter and drier conditions are causing more wildfires. Since the mid 80s,
     the area burned by wildfires across the Western U.S. is estimated to have been twice
     what it would have been without climate change. This was even before accounting for
     the California wildfires last summer, which were by far the largest on record.

To tackle climate change, we need to bring greenhouse gas emissions close to zero. This is
possible, but it requires a deep transformation in the sectors most responsible for emissions:
energy, transport, and industry.

 38. Were you able to watch and listen to the video until the end?
     Yes; No, there was a technical problem; No, I skipped part of the video

 39. From what was said in the video, if greenhouse gas emissions continue on their current
     trend, what will be the rise in global average temperature in 2100?
     [1°C / 2°F]; [2°C / 3.6°F]; [4°C / 8°F]; [7°C / 15°F]; Don’t know

 40. [This question depends on the country, U.S. one is given] From what was said in the
     video, in the absence of ambitious action against climate change, how frequent will
     extreme temperatures (that is, temperature above 95°F) occur on average across the
     U.S. by the end of the century?
     70 days per year; 80 days per year; 90 days per year; 100 days per year; Don’t know

Climate policy video
   We will now show you a 5 minute video (with sound) that summarizes the features of
some policies proposed to fight climate change. Please pay attention to the information
provided as you will be asked questions about it later. Do not skip forward or close the page
while the video is running. Please proceed to the next page when you are ready.

   • Australia: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
     F=F_3gagRLUpgyAicVE

   • Brazil: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
     eCZzzoblKYpWKh0

   • Canada (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_9Lekk0zTPurlzkG




                                             71
• Canada (French): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_9twKmQCtMuJpfp4

• China: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  1ZhXvFBoUtvq7qK

• Denmark: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_39OXHJ3gT6p4U74

• France: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
  F_6F2lryw2eo1eQNU

• Germany: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_9SvqNOCSY8ywnHw

• India (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_2mjlMdvMpAYJAuG

• India (Hindi): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
  php?F=F_00696ZTnBDTFQ10

• Indonesia: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_1RqbYYeT2cOnOPc

• Italy: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  6mMBZqNPLgvUKZo

• Japan: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  0rCWm2QnbEfaR1k

• Mexico: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
  F_3UbhIz7hb99f0wu

• Poland: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
  F_etkOtRoDmoSXkSq

• South Africa (English): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/
  File.php?F=F_9FDOxYLGIwdrYh0

• South Africa (Zulu): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/
  File.php?F=F_1zij8ULej3rYsXs

• South Korea: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?
  F=F_4O2BSbDDYVUUhb8

• Spain: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=F_
  9ZCXWK6BphbFQWy




                                    72
   • Turkey: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.php?F=
     F_9RF3ckVwWR9MH1Y

   • Ukraine (Ukrainian): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/
     File.php?F=F_bDbSZHrj0tU9b7w

   • Ukraine (Russian): https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_3wr99GUKuUVgK3k

   • United Kingdom: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_bg5w9RRYbGtMrwa

   • United States: https://lse.eu.qualtrics.com/WRQualtricsControlPanel/File.
     php?F=F_bj5mFN15bJnlUbk

   Below is the script used for the U.S.]

     To fight climate change and avoid an ever-warming climate, we need an array of policies.
Climate policies are needed to transform the way we produce energy, to make buildings
greener, to put greener cars on the roads and reduce our fuel consumption. But these
policies also need to protect people’s jobs and incomes. Let’s have a closer look on three
possible climate policies.
     Let’s start with a policy that forces car producers to produce greener cars – a ban on
combustion-engine cars. With a ban on combustion-engine cars, car producers are first
required by law to produce cars that emit less CO2 per [kilometre/mile]. The emission limit
is lowered every year, so that only electric or hydrogen vehicles can be sold after 2030. Note
that electric vehicles currently cannot travel as far and can be more expensive than cars
that run on petrol. Together with a plan to produce electricity from clean sources, a ban on
combustion-engine cars would accomplish the transition needed in the car industry.
     Now, let’s turn to a policy that combines a tax on carbon emissions to reduce emissions
and cash transfers to protect people’s purchasing power. With a carbon tax, all products
that emit greenhouse gases would be taxed. For example, the price of gasoline would increase
by [40 cents per gallon]. With a carbon tax, companies and people pay for the greenhouse
gases they emit. This pushes them to reduce their emissions. To compensate people for
the price increases, the revenues of the carbon tax would be redistributed to all households,
regardless of their income. Each adult would thus receive [600 dollar] per year. On average,
poorer people own smaller cars, live in smaller houses and fly less, so they use less fossil
fuels than average. [The previous sentence is adapted in middle-income countries.] As they
would receive the same cash transfer as everyone else, poorer people will generally gain from
a carbon tax with cash transfers. Conversely, rich people will tend to lose. Does this policy
work? Yes! The Canadian province of British Columbia has a carbon tax with cash transfers
since 2008. Research has shown that this policy has decreased carbon emissions, increased
employment, and made a majority of people richer. The last policy is a large program of
public investment in green infrastructure, which would be financed by additional debt taken




                                             73
up by the government. A green infrastructure program would bring about the transition
in energy infrastructure needed to halt climate change but it could come at the expense of
other possible projects funded by the government. In [the U.S.], such a programme could
create [4 million] jobs in green sectors, such as public transportation, renewable power plants,
buildings’ insulation, or sustainable agriculture, but [2 million] of people could lose their job
in the fossil fuel industry. In general, all climate policies have the potential to transform
the economy into a greener, safer, less polluted world. This green transformation has some
downsides: people will have to change their habits, and some people will even have to change
job. For example, there will be less demand for polluting sectors such as coal mining. But
re-training options would be offered to workers in these sectors to ensure that they could find
a new job elsewhere. And the green transition also comes with benefits: a safer world for
future generations of course, but also less pollution. And climate policies can be designed to
protect poor and middle-class households, as they can have more income with the carbon tax
with cash transfers, and more jobs with a green infrastructure program. We have focused on
three important policies, but many others would be useful to fight climate change, including
funding research into green technologies, subsidising the insulation of buildings, or stopping
deforestation. To stop climate change, we probably need all of them together.

 41. Were you able to watch and listen to the video until the end?
     Yes; No, there was a technical problem; No, I skipped part of the video

 42. The video presented three climate policies. What was the first policy about?
     A ban on combustion-engine cars; A ban on short-haul flights; A ban on coal power
     plants; A ban on single-use plastic bags; Don’t know

 43. The green infrastructure program described in the video would be financed by:
     Additional government debt; Taxes on the wealthiest; Increase in the VAT (value-added
     tax); Reduction in social spending; Don’t know

Climate knowledge
 44. How often do you think or talk with people about climate change?
     Almost never; Several times a year; Several times a month

 45. In your opinion, is climate change real?
     Yes; No

 46. (If “Yes” to 60) What part of climate change do you think is due to human activity?
     None; A little; Some; A lot; Most

 47. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “Climate change is an important
     problem.”
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree




                                               74
48. How knowledgeable do you consider yourself about climate change?
    Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal

49. Greenhouse gases are gases that trap heat in the atmosphere and make the Earth
    warmer, causing climate change. In particular, the burning of fossil fuels and agricul-
    tural production emit greenhouse gases. Which of the following elements contribute to
    climate change? (Multiple answers are possible)
    CO2 ; Hydrogen; Methane; Particulate matter

50. Do you think that cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by half would be sufficient
    to eventually stop temperatures from rising?
    Yes; No
    For the next three questions we would like you to rank the items according to the
    greenhouse gas emissions they emit, to the best of your knowledge (where 1 is the item
    that emits the most and 3 the item that emits the least). The greenhouse gas emissions
    of a product are those emitted at all steps involved in its production and distribution.

51. If a [family of 4 or couple or person, depending on the country] travels [500 km from
    New York City to Toronto (for the U.S.)], with which mode of transportation do they
    emit the most greenhouse gases? Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least) (by
    clicking and dragging the items).
    Car (running on diesel or gasoline); [Coach or Train, depending on the country]; Plane

52. Which dish emits the most greenhouse gases? We consider that each dish weighs half
    a pound. Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least) (by clicking and dragging
    the items).
    A [beef ] steak; One serving of [pasta]; Chicken wings

53. Which source of electric energy emits the most greenhouse gases to provide power for
    a house? Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least) (by clicking and dragging
    the items).
    Gas-fired power plant; Nuclear power plant; Coal-fired power station

54. Which region contributes most to global greenhouse gas emissions? Please rank the
    regions from 1 (most) to 4 (least) and note that multiple regions may have the same
    rank.

      • The U.S.
      • The European Union
      • China
      • India

    1; 2; 3; 4




                                           75
 55. Consider now per capita emissions: in which region does the consumption of an average
     person contribute most to greenhouse gas emissions? Please rank the regions from 1
     (most) to [4 / 5] (least).
        • The U.S.
        • The European Union
        • China
        • India
        • [Country, if not above or not in the EU]
     1; 2; 3; 4; [5]
 56. If nothing is done to limit climate change, how likely do you think it is that climate
     change will lead to the following events?
        • Severe droughts and heatwaves
        • More frequent volcanic eruptions
        • Rising sea levels
        • Lower agricultural production
        • Drop in standards of living
        • Larger migration flows
        • More armed conflicts
        • Extinction of humankind
     Very unlikely; Somewhat unlikely; Somewhat likely; Very likely

Attitudes and risks
 57. To what extent are the following groups responsible for climate change in [country]?
        • Each of us
        • The high income earners
        • [country] government
        • Companies
        • Previous generations
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal
 58. To what extent do you think that it is technically feasible to stop greenhouse gas emis-
     sions by the end of the century while [maintaining / sustaining] satisfactory standards
     of living in [country]?
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal




                                             76
 59. To what extent do you think climate change already affects or will affect your personal
     life negatively?
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal
 60. How likely is it that human kind halts climate change by the end of the century?
     Very unlikely; Somewhat unlikely; Somewhat likely; Very likely
 61. If we decide to halt climate change through ambitious policies, what would be the
     effects on [country] economy and employment?
     Very negative effects; Somewhat negative effects; No noticeable effects; Somewhat pos-
     itive effects; Very positive effects
 62. If we decide to halt climate change through ambitious policies, to what extent do you
     think it would negatively affect your lifestyle?
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal
 63. Here are possible behaviors that experts say would help reduce greenhouse gas emis-
     sions. To what extent would you be willing to adopt the following behaviors?
        • Limit flying
        • Limit driving
        • Have an electric vehicle
        • Limit [beef / India: meat] consumption
        • Limit heating or cooling your home
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal
 64. How important are the factors below in order for you to adopt a sustainable lifestyle
     (i.e. limit driving, flying, and consumption, cycle more, etc.)?
        • Ambitious climate policies
        • Having enough financial support
        • People around you also changing their behavior
        • The most well-off also changing their behavior
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal

Policy 1: Ban on the sale of combustion-engine cars
    To fight climate change, car producers can be required by law to produce cars that emit
less CO2 per [kilometer / mile] of the cars they sell. The emission limit is lowered every
year so that only electric or hydrogen vehicles can be sold after 2030. This policy is called a
ban on combustion-engine cars. We will now ask you a few questions regarding this specific
policy.




                                              77
65. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? A ban on combustion engine
    cars would. . .

      • reduce CO2 emissions from cars
      • reduce air pollution
      • have a
                                  negative/positive(randomized)
         effect on [country] economy and employment
      • have a large effect on [country] economy and employment
      • be a
                                   costly/costless(randomized)
         way to fight climate change

    Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
    Strongly agree

66. In your view, would the following groups win or lose if a ban on combustion-engine
    cars was implemented in [country]?

      • Low-income earners
      • The middle class
      • High-income earners
      • Those living in rural areas

    Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

67. Do you think that your household would win or lose financially from a ban on combustion-
    engine cars?
    Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

68. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “A ban on combustion-engine
    cars is fair”?
    Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
    Strongly agree

69. Do you support or oppose a ban on combustion-engine cars?
    Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
    Strongly support

70. Do you support or oppose a ban on combustion-engine cars where alternatives such as
    public transports are made available to people?
    Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
    Strongly support




                                           78
Policy 2: Green infrastructure program
    A green infrastructure program is a large public investment program, which would be
financed by additional public debt, to accomplish the transition needed to cut greenhouse
gas emissions. Investments would concern renewable power plants, public transport, thermal
renovation of buildings, and sustainable agriculture. We will now ask you a few questions
regarding this specific policy.

 71. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? A green infrastructure program
     would. . .

        • make electricity production greener
        • increase the use of public transport
        • reduce air pollution
        • have a negative effect on [country] economy and employment
        • have a large effect on [country] economy and employment
        • be a costly way to fight climate change

     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 72. In your view, would the following groups win or lose with a green infrastructure pro-
     gram?

        • Low-income earners
        • The middle class
        • High-income earners
        • Those living in rural areas

     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 73. Do you think that your household would win or lose financially from a green infras-
     tructure program?
     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 74. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “A green infrastructure program
     is fair”?
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 75. Do you support or oppose a green infrastructure program?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support




                                            79
 76. Until now, we have considered that a green infrastructure program would be financed
     by public debt, but other sources of funding are possible.
       What sources of funding do you find appropriate for public investments in green in-
       frastructure? (Multiple answers are possible)
       Additional public debt; Increase in the [sales tax / VAT (value-added tax)]; Increase in
       taxes on the wealthiest; Reduction in social spending; Reduction in military spending

Policy 3: Carbon tax with cash transfers
    To fight climate change, [country] government can make greenhouse gas emissions costly,
to make people and firms change their equipment and reduce their emissions. The govern-
ment could do this through a policy called a carbon tax with cash transfers. Under such a
policy, the government would tax all products that emit greenhouse gas. For example, the
price of gasoline would increase by [40 cents per gallon]. To compensate households for the
price increases, the revenues from the carbon tax would be redistributed to all households,
regardless of their income. Each adult would thus receive [600 dollar] per year.33 We will
now ask you a few questions regarding this specific policy.

 77. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? A carbon tax with cash
     transfers would. . .

         • encourage people to drive less
         • encourage people and companies to insulate buildings
         • reduce the use of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions
         • reduce air pollution
         • have a negative effect on [country] economy and employment
         • have a large effect on [country] economy and employment
         • be a costly way to fight climate change

       Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
       Strongly agree

 78. In your view, would the following groups win or lose under a carbon tax with cash
     transfers?

         • Low-income earners
         • The middle class
         • High-income earners
         • Those living in rural areas
   The tax considered is (implicitly) set at $45 per ton of CO2 (see Appendix A-11.1.1 for details of the
  33

computation.




                                                   80
     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 79. Do you think that your household would win or lose financially under a carbon tax
     with cash transfers?
     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 80. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “A carbon tax with cash
     transfers is fair”?
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 81. Do you support or oppose a carbon tax with cash transfers?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

 82. Now, we consider a variant of the policy where the cash transfers are higher for low-
     income people compared to high-income people. Do you agree or disagree that such a
     policy would be fair?
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 83. Do you support or oppose a carbon tax with cash transfers with higher transfers for
     low-income people compared to high-income people?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

Preferences on climate policies
 84. [Attention check question] To show that you are attentive, please select “a little”
     in the following list:
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal

 85. Do you support or oppose the following climate policies?

       • A tax on flying (that increases ticket prices by 20%)
       • A national tax on fossil fuels (increasing gasoline prices by [40 cents per gallon])
       • A ban of polluting vehicles in dense areas, like city centers
       • Subsidies for low-carbon technologies (renewable energy, capture and storage of
         carbon...)
       • A contribution to a global climate fund to finance clean energy in low-income
         countries

     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support




                                            81
 86. Governments can use the revenues from carbon taxes in different ways. Would you
     support or oppose introducing a carbon tax that would raise gasoline prices by [40
     cents per gallon], if the government used this revenue to finance...
        • Cash transfers to households with no alternative to using fossil fuels
        • Cash transfers to the poorest households
        • Equal cash transfers to all households
        • A reduction in personal income taxes
        • A reduction in corporate income taxes
        • Tax rebates for the most affected firms
        • Funding environmental infrastructure projects (public transport, cycling ways,
          etc.)
        • Subsidizing low-carbon technologies, including renewable energy
        • A reduction in the public deficit
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

Willingness to pay and real stake questions
 87. To fight global warming, [country] government could implement a policy package to
     reduce emissions, for example by investing in clean technologies (renewable energy,
     electric vehicles, public transport, more efficient insulation, etc.). The funding for these
     investments could be collected annually through an additional individual contribution
     for the foreseeable future. Assume that everyone in [country] as well as citizens of
     other countries would be required to contribute according to their means. Are you
     willing to pay ([$10 / $30 / $50 / $100 / $300 /$500 / $1,000 ]) annually through an
     additional individual contribution to limit global warming to safe levels (less than 2
     degrees Celsius)?
     Yes; No
 88. By taking this survey, you are automatically entered into a lottery to win [$100]. In a
     few days you will know whether you have been selected in the lottery. The payment
     will be made to you in the same way as your compensation for this survey, so no
     further action is required on your part. You can also donate a part of this additional
     compensation (should you be selected in the lottery) to a reforestation project through
     the charity The Gold Standard. This charity has already proven effective to reduce
     151 million tons of CO2 to fight climate change and has been carefully selected by our
     team. The Gold Standard is highly transparent and ensures that its projects feature
     the highest levels of environmental integrity and contribute to sustainable development.
     Should you win the lottery, please enter your donation amount using the slider below:
     Slider going from 0 to [100]




                                              82
International burden-sharing
 89. At which level(s) do you think public policies to tackle climate change need to be put
     in place? (Multiple answers are possible)
     Global; [Federal / European / ...]; [State / National]; Local

 90. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “[country] should take measures
     to fight climate change.”
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 91. How should [country] climate policies depend on what other countries do?

       • If other countries do more, [country] should do. . .
       • If other countries do less, [country] should do. . .

     Much less; Less; About the same; More; Much more

 92. [In all countries but the U.S., Denmark and France] All countries have signed the Paris
     agreement that aims to contain global warming “well below +2 °C´’. To limit global
     warming to this level, there is a maximum amount of greenhouse gases we can emit
     globally, called the carbon budget. Each country could aim to emit less than a share
     of the carbon budget. To respect the global carbon budget, countries that emit more
     than their national share would pay a fee to countries that emit less than their share.
     Do you support such a policy?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

 93. [In all countries but the U.S., Denmark and France] Suppose the above policy is in
     place. How should the carbon budget be divided among countries?
     The emission share of a country should be proportional to its population, so that each
     human has an equal right to emit.; The emission share of a country should be propor-
     tional to its current emissions, so that those who already emit more have more rights
     to emit.; Countries that have emitted more over the past decades (from 1990 onwards)
     should receive a lower emission share, because they have already used some of their
     fair share.; Countries that will be hurt more by climate change should receive a higher
     emission share, to compensate them for the damages.

 94. [In the U.S., Denmark, and France only] To achieve a given reduction of greenhouse
     gas emissions globally, costly investments are needed. Ideally, how should countries
     bear the costs of fighting climate change?

       • Countries should pay in proportion to their income
       • Countries should pay in proportion to their current emissions
       • Countries should pay in proportion to their past emissions (from 1990 onwards)




                                             83
        • The richest countries should pay it all, so that the poorest countries do not have
          to pay anything
        • The richest countries should pay even more, to help vulnerable countries face
          adverse consequences: vulnerable countries would then receive money instead of
          paying

     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 95. Do you support or oppose establishing a global democratic assembly whose role would
     be to draft international treaties against climate change? Each adult across the world
     would have one vote to elect members of the assembly.
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

 96. Imagine the following policy: a global tax on greenhouse gas emissions funding a
     global basic income. Such a policy would progressively raise the price of fossil fuels
     (for example, the price of gasoline would increase by [40 cents per gallon] in the first
     years). Higher prices would encourage people and companies to use less fossil fuels,
     reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Revenues from the tax would be used to finance a
     basic income of [$30] per month to each human adult, thereby lifting the 700 million
     people who earn less than $2/day out of extreme poverty. The average British person
     would lose a bit from this policy as they would face [$130] per month in price increases,
     which is higher than the [$30] they would receive.
     Do you support or oppose such a policy?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

 97. Do you support or oppose a tax on all millionaires around the world to finance low-
     income countries that comply with international standards regarding climate action?
     This would finance infrastructure and public services such as access to drinking water,
     healthcare, and education.
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

Housing and cattle products
  (In Brazil, Mexico, India, and Indonesia, these 5 questions on heating were not asked. In
Australia, they were asked with cooling instead of heating.)
 98. (If “Owner” or “Landlord renting out” at 13) How likely is it that you will improve
     the insulation or replace the heating system of your accommodation over the next 5
     years?
     Very unlikely; Somewhat unlikely; Somewhat likely; Very likely




                                             84
 99. (If “Owner” or “Landlord renting out” at 13) What are the main hurdles preventing you
     from improving the insulation or replace the heating system of your accommodation?
     (Multiple answers are possible)
     The choice to insulate or replace the heating system is not mine; The upfront costs are
     too high; It is too much effort; It won’t improve its energy efficiency; My insulation
     and heating systems are already satisfactory

100. GROUP 1. Imagine that [country] government makes it mandatory for all residential
     buildings to have insulation that meets a certain energy efficiency standard before 2040.
     The government would subsidise half of the insulation costs to help households with
     the transition. Do you support or oppose such policy?

101. GROUP 2. Imagine that [country] government makes it mandatory for all residential
     buildings to have insulation that meets a certain energy efficiency standard before 2040.
     The government would subsidise half of the insulation costs to help households with
     the transition. Insulating your home can take long, may cause disruptions to your
     daily life during the renovation works, and may even require you to leave your home
     until the renovation is completed. Do you support or oppose such policy?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

102. Imagine that [country] government makes it mandatory for all residential buildings
     to have insulation that meets a certain energy efficiency standard before 2040. The
     government would subsidise half of the insulation costs to help households with the
     transition. Insulating your home can take long, may cause disruptions to your daily
     life during the renovation works, and may even require you to leave your home until
     the renovation is completed. Do you support or oppose such policy?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

103. (In India, this question was skipped.) Imagine that, in order to fight climate change,
     [country] government decides to limit the consumption of cattle products like beef and
     dairy. Do you support or oppose the following options?

        • A high tax on cattle products, so that the price of beef doubles
        • Subsidies on organic and local vegetables, fruits, and nuts
        • The removal of subsidies for cattle farming
        • The ban of intensive cattle farming

     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support




                                             85
Trust, perceptions of institutions, inequality, and the future
104. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “Most people can be trusted.”
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree
105. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement: “Over the last decade, [country]
     government could generally be trusted to do what is right.”
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree
106. Some people think the government is trying to do too many things that should be left
     to individuals and businesses. Others think that the government should do more to
     solve our country’s problems. Which come closer to your own view?
     Government is doing too much; Government is doing just the right amount; Govern-
     ment should do more
107. How big of an issue do you think income inequality is in [country]?
     Not an issue at all; A small issue; An issue; A serious issue; A very serious issue
108. Do you think that overall people in the world will be richer or poorer in 100 years from
     now?
     Much poorer; Poorer; As rich as now; Richer; Much richer

Feedback
109. Do you feel that this survey was politically biased?
     Yes, left-wing biased; Yes, right-wing biased; No, I do not feel it was biased
110. The survey is nearing completion. You can now enter any comments, thoughts or
     suggestions in the field below.

Petition
111. Finally, are you willing to sign a petition to “stand up for real climate action”? As
     soon as the survey is complete, we will send the results to the [head of state’s] office,
     informing him what share of people who took this survey were willing to support the
     following petition. “I agree that immediate action on climate change is critical. Now
     is the time to dedicate ourselves to a low-carbon future and prevent lasting damage
     to all living things. Science shows us we cannot afford to wait to cut harmful carbon
     emissions. I’m adding my voice to the call to world leaders in [country] and beyond –
     to act so we do not lose ground in combating climate change.” Do you support this
     petition (you will NOT be asked to sign, only your answer here is required and remains
     anonymous)?
     Yes; No




                                             86
A-7    U.S. Robustness Survey Questionnaire
Consent
 1. Welcome to this survey.

   This is a survey conducted for academic research. It will take approximately 15 min-
   utes to complete. The survey data is used for research purposes only, and the research
   is non-partisan. You will be compensated for this survey if you complete the survey
   and your responses pass our survey quality checks. These checks use statistical control
   methods to detect incoherent and rushed responses. It is very important for the va-
   lidity of our research that you answer honestly and read the questions carefully
   before answering.

   The purpose of this survey is for us to understand what shapes your views on current
   policy matters, what you think should be done, what you believe is fair, and what you
   think the government should do. You should know the following:
   - You may not be told everything. As part of this research design, you may not be told
   about the purpose or procedures of this research. However, the purpose or procedures
   of the research will be disclosed to you following your participation.
   - Whether or not you take part is up to you. Your participation is completely voluntary.
   You can choose not to take part. You can agree to take part and later change your
   mind. Your decision will not be held against you. Your refusal to participate will not
   result in any consequences or any loss of benefits that you are otherwise entitled to
   receive. You can ask all the questions you want before you decide.
   - If you have questions, concerns, or complaints, or think the research has hurt you,
   contact the research team at social.economics.research2020@gmail.com or call the Har-
   vard University Area Institutional Review Board (“IRB”) at (617) 496-2847.

   All of the answers you provide will remain anonymous and be treated with absolute
   confidentiality.

   Do you agree to participate in the survey?
   Yes; No

Background questions
 2. What is your gender?
    Male; Female; Other
 3. Which ZIP code do you currently live in?
    [Text entry]




                                          87
 4. How old are you?
    Below 18; 18 to 24; 25 to 34; 35 to 49; 50 to 64; 65 and above

 5. Which one of these best describes your ethnicity/race?
    European American/White; African American/Black; Hispanic/Latino; Asian/Asian
    American; American Indian or Alaskan Native; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific
    Islander; Other

 6. What was your TOTAL household income, before taxes, in 2023?
    $0-$14,999; $15,000-$24,999; $25,000-$34,999; $35,000-$49,999; $50,000-$74,999; $75,000-
    $99,999; $100,000-$149,999; $150,000-$199,999; $200,000+

 7. What type of agglomeration do you live in?
    A rural area; A small town (5,000 - 20,000 inhabitants); A large town (20,000 - 50,000
    inhabitants); A small city or its suburbs (50,000 - 250,000 inhabitants); A large city
    or its suburbs (250,000 - 3,000,000 inhabitants); A very large city or its suburbs (more
    than 3 million inhabitants)

 8. How many children below 14 live with you?
    0; 1; 2; 3; 4 or more

 9. What is the highest level of education you have completed?
    Primary education or less; Some High School; High School degree/GED; Some Col-
    lege; 2-year College Degree; 4-year College Degree; Master’s Degree; Doctoral Degree;
    Professional Degree (JD, MD, MBA)

10. What is your employment status?
    Full-time employed; Part-time employed; Self-employed or small business owner; Stu-
    dent; Retired; Unemployed and looking for a job; Not currently working and not looking
    for a job

11. (If “Full-time employed”, “Part-time employed”, or “Self-employed” to 10) If you work
    in any of the following industries, please select one describing your industry best.
    Oil, gas or coal; Other energy industries; Cement production; Construction; Automo-
    bile manufacturing; Iron and steel manufacturing; Chemical manufacturing; Plastics
    production; Pulp and paper production; Farming (crop or livestock); Air transport (e.g.
    airlines); No, none of the above

12. (If “Retired”, “Unemployed (searching for a job)”, “Inactive (not searching for a job)”
    to 10) If in your last job you worked in any of the following industries, please select
    one describing your industry best
    Oil, gas or coal; Other energy industries; Cement production; Construction; Automo-
    bile manufacturing; Iron and steel manufacturing; Chemical manufacturing; Plastics
    production; Pulp and paper production; Farming (crop or livestock); Air transport (e.g.
    airlines); No, none of the above




                                           88
 13. Are you a homeowner or a tenant? (Multiple answers are possible)
     Tenant; Owner; Landlord renting out property

Political views
 14. [Attention check question] To show that you are attentive, please select “a little”
     in the following list:
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal

 15. What do you consider to be your political affiliation, as of today?
     Republican; Democrat; Independent; Other; Non-Affiliated

 16. Did you vote in the 2020 Presidential election?
     Yes; No: I don’t have the right to vote in the United States; Prefer not to say

 17. (If “Yes” to 16) Which candidate did you vote for in the 2020 Presidential election?
     Joe Biden; Donald Trump; Other

 18. (If not “Yes” to 16) Even if you did NOT vote in the 2020 election, please indicate the
     candidate that you were most likely to have voted for or who represents your views
     more closely.
     Joe Biden; Donald Trump; Other

 19. On economic policy matters, where do you see yourself on the liberal/conservative
     spectrum?
     Very liberal; Liberal; Moderate; Conservative; Very conservative

 20. Are you a member of an environmental organization?
     Yes; No

Household composition and energy characteristics
 21. In a typical month, how much do you spend on heating for your accommodation?
     I don’t know; Less than [$20]; [$20]-[$75]; [$75]-[$125]; [$125]-[$200]; [$200]-[$250];
     [$250]-[$300]; More than [$300]

 22. In a typical month, how much do you spend on gas for driving?
     Less than [$5]; [$5]-[$25]; [$25]-[$75]; [$75]-[$125]; [$125]-[$175]; [$175]-[$225]; More
     than [$225]

 23. How many round-trip flights did you take between 2021 and 2023?
     0; 1; 2; 3 or 4; 5 to 7; 8 to 14; 15 or more

 24. How often do you eat beef?
     Never; Less than once a week; One to four times per week; Almost or at least daily




                                             89
 25. Which mode of transport did you mainly use for each of the following trips in 2023?

       • Commute to work or place of study
       • Grocery shopping
       • Recreational and leisure activities (excluding holiday travel)

     Car or Motorbike; Public Transport; Walking or Cycling; Other; Not Applicable

 26. How do you rate the availability (ease of access and frequency) of public transportation
     where you live?
     Very poor; Poor; Fair; Good; Excellent

Attitudes and risks – New Questions
 27. In your view, is global climate change a very serious problem, somewhat serious, not
     too serious or not a problem?
     A very serious problem; A somewhat serious problem; Not too serious; Not a problem

 28. Do you think our country does or does not have a responsibility to take steps to deal
     with climate change?
     Does; Does not

 29. How concerned are you, if at all, that global climate change will harm you personally
     at some point in your lifetime? Are you very concerned, somewhat concerned, not too
     concerned or not at all concerned?
     concerned; somewhat concerned; not too concerned; not at all concerned

 30. How confident are you that actions taken by the international community will signifi-
     cantly reduce the effects of global climate change – very confident, somewhat confident,
     not too confident, or not at all confident?
     very confident; somewhat confident; not too confident; not at all confident

 31. Do you think climate change will be a threat to people in your country in the next 20
     years?
     Very serious threat; Somewhat serious threat; Not a threat at all; Don’t know

 32. Which of the following are you most concerned about? The impacts of global warming
     on...
     you and your family; your local community; the U.S. as a whole; people all over the
     world; non-human nature; not at all concerned

 33. Do you think actions taken by the international community to address global climate
     change, such as the Paris climate agreement, will mostly benefit the U.S. economy,
     mostly harm the U.S. economy, or have no impact?
     mostly benefit the U.S. economy; mostly harm the U.S. economy; have no impact




                                            90
 34. How much do you think climate change will harm you personally?
     A great deal; A moderate amount; Only a little; Not at all; Don’t know

Preferences on climate policies
Policy 1: Ban on the sale of combustion-engine cars
    To fight climate change, car producers can be required by law to produce cars that emit
less CO2 per mile of the cars they sell. The emission limit is lowered every year so that
only electric or hydrogen vehicles can be sold after 2030. This policy is called a ban on
combustion-engine cars. We will now ask you a few questions regarding this specific policy.

Original Questions
 35. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? A ban on combustion-engine
     cars would. . .

        • reduce air pollution
        • reduce CO2 emissions from cars
        • have a negative effect on the U.S. economy and employment

     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 36. In your view, would the following groups win or lose if a ban on combustion-engine
     cars was implemented in the U.S.?

        • Low-income earners
        • High-income earners

     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 37. Do you think that your household would win or lose financially from a ban on combustion-
     engine cars?
     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 38. Do you support or oppose a ban on combustion-engine cars?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support




                                            91
Incentivized Questions
   [TREATED] If your answers to the questions on the next page are accurate,
you will be entered in a lottery to win a $80 bonus, to be converted into Panel
Points. Only those who answer correctly will be part of this lottery. In a few days, you will
know whether you have been selected in the lottery. The payment will be made to you in
the same way as your compensation for this survey, so no further action is required on your
part.

 39. Do you think a ban on combustion-engine cars would decrease or increase CO2 emis-
     sions from cars”
     Decrease; Neither decrease nor increase; Increase

 40. Do you think a ban on combustion-engine cars would decrease or increase the total
     costs of owning a car for low-income families (earning less than $25,000 a year)?
     Decrease; Neither decrease nor increase; Increase

Policy 2: Green infrastructure program
    A green infrastructure program is a large public investment program, which would be
financed by additional public debt, to accomplish the transition needed to cut greenhouse
gas emissions. Investments would concern renewable power plants, public transport, thermal
renovation of buildings, and sustainable agriculture. We will now ask you a few questions
regarding this specific policy.

Original Questions
 41. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? A green infrastructure program
     would. . .

        • make electricity production greener
        • increase the use of public transport
        • reduce air pollution
        • have a negative effect on the U.S. economy and employment

     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 42. In your view, would the following groups win or lose with a green infrastructure pro-
     gram?

        • Low-income earners
        • High-income earners




                                             92
       Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 43. Do you think that your household would win or lose financially from a green infras-
     tructure program?
     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 44. Do you support or oppose a green infrastructure program?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

Incentivized Questions
   [TREATED] If your answers to the questions on the next page are accurate,
you will be entered in a lottery to win a $80 bonus, to be converted into Panel
Points. Only those who answer correctly will be part of this lottery. In a few days, you will
know whether you have been selected in the lottery. The payment will be made to you in
the same way as your compensation for this survey, so no further action is required on your
part.

 45. Do you think a green infrastructure program should decrease or increase carbon emis-
     sions from the electricity sector?
     Decrease; Neither decrease nor increase; Increase

 46. If the U.S. invests a lot in renewable energy to reach zero emissions in electricity
     production by 2035, what will happen to jobs for people without a college degree?
     Decrease; Neither decrease nor increase; Increase

Policy 3: Carbon tax with cash transfers
    To fight climate change, the U.S. government can make greenhouse gas emissions costly,
to make people and firms change their equipment and reduce their emissions. The govern-
ment could do this through a policy called a carbon tax with cash transfers. Under such a
policy, the government would tax all products that emit greenhouse gas. For example, the
price of gasoline would increase by 40 cents per gallon. To compensate households for the
price increases, the revenues from the carbon tax would be redistributed to all households,
regardless of their income. Each adult would thus receive $600 per year.34 We will now ask
you a few questions regarding this specific policy.

Original Questions
 47. Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? A carbon tax with cash
     transfers would. . .
   The tax considered is (implicitly) set at $45 per ton of CO2 (see Appendix A-11.1.1 for details of the
  34

computation.




                                                   93
        • encourage people to drive less
        • encourage people and companies to insulate buildings
        • reduce the use of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions
        • reduce air pollution
        • have a negative effect on the U.S. economy and employment

     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 48. In your view, would the following groups win or lose under a carbon tax with cash
     transfers?

        • Low-income earners
        • High-income earners

     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 49. Do you think that your household would win or lose financially under a carbon tax
     with cash transfers?
     Lose a lot; Mostly lose; Neither win nor lose; Mostly win; Win a lot

 50. Do you support or oppose a carbon tax with cash transfers?
     Strongly oppose; Somewhat oppose; Neither support nor oppose; Somewhat support;
     Strongly support

Incentivized Questions
   [TREATED] If your answers to the questions on the next page are accurate,
you will be entered in a lottery to win a $80 bonus, to be converted into Panel
Points. Only those who answer correctly will be part of this lottery. In a few days, you will
know whether you have been selected in the lottery. The payment will be made to you in
the same way as your compensation for this survey, so no further action is required on your
part.

 51. Do you think a carbon tax with cash transfers would decrease or increase carbon
     emissions?
     Decrease; Neither decrease nor increase; Increase

 52. Do you think that low-income earners would win or lose financially under a carbon tax
     with cash transfers?
     Lose; Neither win nor lose; Win




                                             94
Social Desirability Bias
 53. How many of the following policies do you support? You do not need to tell us which
     ones, just how many:
     $10,000 in student loans for people earning less than $125,000 a year; Cut sentence en-
     hancements, like third strikes, to shorten prison terms; Eliminate most current gun laws
     to protect Second Amendment rights; Cut military and financial support to Ukraine;
     [only treated branch] A carbon tax with cash transfers
 54. How many of the following behaviors have you adopted or are you willing to adopt?
     You do not need to tell us which ones, just how many:
     Limit alcohol consumption; Donate 5% of your income to charity; Read one book per
     month; [only treated branch] Limit meat/beef consumption

Attitudes and risks – Original Questions
 55. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? “Climate change is an impor-
     tant problem.”
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree
 56. How likely is it that humankind halts climate change by the end of the century?
     Very unlikely; Somewhat unlikely; Somewhat likely; Very likely
 57. To what extent do you think climate change already affects or will affect your personal
     life negatively?
     Not at all; A little; Moderately; A lot; A great deal
 58. If we decide to halt climate change through ambitious policies, what would be the
     effects on the U.S. economy and employment?
     Very negative effects; Somewhat negative effects; No noticeable effects; Somewhat pos-
     itive effects; Very positive effects
 59. If nothing is done to limit climate change, how likely do you think it is that climate
     change will lead to the following events?
       • Severe droughts and heatwaves
       • More frequent volcanic eruptions
       • Rising sea levels
       • Drop in standards of living
       • Larger migration flows
       • More armed conflicts
       • Extinction of humankind
     Very unlikely; Somewhat unlikely; Somewhat likely; Very likely




                                            95
Climate knowledge
   [TREATED] If your answers to the questions on the next THREE pages are
accurate, you will be entered in a lottery to win a $80 bonus, to be converted
into Panel Points. Only those who answer correctly will be part of this lottery. In a few
days, you will know whether you have been selected in the lottery. The payment will be
made to you in the same way as your compensation for this survey, so no further action is
required on your part.

 60. In your opinion, is climate change real?
     Yes; No

 61. (If “Yes” to 60) What part of climate change do you think is due to human activity?
     None; A little; Some; A lot; Most

 62. Greenhouse gases are gases that trap heat in the atmosphere and make the Earth
     warmer, causing climate change. In particular, the burning of fossil fuels and agricul-
     tural production emit greenhouse gases. Which of the following elements contribute to
     climate change? (Multiple answers are possible)
     CO2 ; Hydrogen; Methane; Particulate matter

 63. Do you think that cutting global greenhouse gas emissions by half now and keeping
     them at that level would be sufficient to eventually stop temperatures from rising?
     Yes; No
     For the next three questions we would like you to rank the items according to the
     greenhouse gas emissions they emit, to the best of your knowledge (where 1 is the item
     that emits the most and 3 the item that emits the least). The greenhouse gas emissions
     of a product are those emitted at all steps involved in its production and distribution.

 64. If a family of 4 travels 500 miles from New York City to Toronto, with which mode of
     transportation do they emit the most greenhouse gases? Please rank the items from 1
     (most) to 3 (least) (by clicking and dragging the items).
     Car (running on diesel or gasoline); Coach; Plane

 65. Which dish emits the most greenhouse gases? We consider that each dish weighs half
     a pound. Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least) (by clicking and dragging
     the items).
     A beef steak; One serving of pasta; Chicken wings

 66. Which source of electric energy emits the most greenhouse gases to provide power for
     a house? Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least) (by clicking and dragging
     the items).
     Gas-fired power plant; Nuclear power plant; Coal-fired power station




                                            96
 67. Which region contributes most to global greenhouse gas emissions? Please rank the
     regions from 1 (most) to 4 (least) and note that multiple regions may have the same
     rank.

        • The U.S.
        • The European Union
        • China
        • India

     1; 2; 3; 4

 68. Consider now per capita emissions: in which region does the consumption of an average
     person contribute most to greenhouse gas emissions? Please rank the regions from 1
     (most) to 4 (least).

        • The U.S.
        • The European Union
        • China
        • India

     1; 2; 3; 4

Trust, perceptions of institutions, inequality, and the future
 69. Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? “Over the last three years, the
     U.S. government could generally be trusted to do what is right.”
     Strongly disagree; Somewhat disagree; Neither agree nor disagree; Somewhat agree;
     Strongly agree

 70. How big of an issue do you think income inequality is in the U.S.?
     Not an issue at all; A small issue; An issue; A serious issue; A very serious issue

Feedback
 71. Do you feel that this survey was politically biased?
     Yes, left-wing biased; Yes, right-wing biased; No, I do not feel it was biased

Debrief Statement
  Thank you for your participation in our research study.




                                             97
    We would like to discuss with you in more detail the study you just participated in and
to explain exactly what we were trying to study.

    Before we tell you about all the goals of this study, however, we want to explain why it
is necessary in some kinds of studies to not tell people everything about the purpose of the
study before they begin.

    As you may know, scientific methods sometimes require that participants in research
studies are not given complete information about the research until after the study is com-
pleted. Although we cannot always tell you everything before you begin your participation,
we do want to tell you everything when the study is completed.

    We don’t always tell people everything at the beginning of a study because we do not
want to influence your responses. If we tell people what the purpose of the study is and what
we predict about how they will respond, then their responses would not be a good indication
of how they would respond in everyday situations.

    This study had two goals: understand what you know about climate change and the
environment and see what could change your views on climate change or related policies.
For this purpose, we varied the financial incentives for answering the survey and varied the
list of items in one question asking you to count how many items applied to you. This was
randomized, meaning that you were randomly allocated to one of these branches, while other
respondents went into other branches. We could not tell you this beforehand as this may
have affected your responses and we wanted them to be as they would in a real world setting.
Please note that the information was ENTIRELY accurate and there is nothing misleading
in any of the questions.

   If other people knew the true purpose of the study, it might affect how they behave/answer
questions, so we are asking you not to share the information we just discussed.

   I hope you enjoyed your experience and I hope you learned some things today. If you
have any questions please feel free to contact us at the email provided in the consent form.

   Do you have any other questions or comments about anything you did today or anything
we’ve talked about?

   Thank you again for your participation


A-8      U.S. Robustness Survey Results




                                             98
                             Figure A25: Sample representativeness – Robustness Survey
                                           Regular Incentives                                                                     Extra Incentives


                  Gender                                                                              Gender
                     Man                                                                                 Man
                      Age                                                                                 Age
           18-24 years old                                                                     18-24 years old
           25-34 years old                                                                     25-34 years old
           35-49 years old                                                                     35-49 years old
   More than 50 years old                                                              More than 50 years old
                  Income                                                                              Income
               Income Q1                                                                           Income Q1
               Income Q2                                                                           Income Q2
               Income Q3                                                                           Income Q3
               Income Q4                                                                           Income Q4
                Location                                                                            Location
                  Midwest                                                                             Midwest
                Northeast                                                                           Northeast
                    South                                                                               South
                     West                                                                                West
                    Urban                                                                               Urban
              Education                                                                           Education
 College education (25-64)                                                           College education (25-64)
            Employment                                                                          Employment
Unemployment rate (15-64)                                                           Unemployment rate (15-64)
              Ownership                                                                           Ownership
     Home ownership rate                                                                 Home ownership rate
                     Vote                                                                                Vote
                    Biden                                                                               Biden
                   Trump                                                                               Trump

                               -.1                    0                      .1                                  -.1                     0           .1
                                                                  P.P. diﬀerence with population




Note: This figure displays difference between sample characteristics and population characteristics by type
of incentives received in the U.S. robustness survey. Bars represent 95% confidence intervals. See Figures 17
and 18 for more details.

             Table A19: Comparison of respondent profiles based on survey payment levels
                                                           Regular Incentives Share       Extra Incentives Share       P-value of difference
                             Man                                     0.46                            0.51                     0.153
                             18-24 years old                         0.11                            0.12                     0.612
                             25-34 years old                         0.15                            0.14                     0.843
                             35-49 years old                         0.25                            0.25                     1.000
                             More than 50 years old                  0.49                            0.48                     0.904
                             Below $35,000                           0.21                            0.21                     0.956
                             $35,000-$70,000                         0.24                            0.22                     0.654
                             $70,000-$120,000                        0.22                            0.23                     0.863
                             Above $120,000                          0.33                            0.34                     0.768
                             White alone                             0.63                            0.62                     0.788
                             African-American/Black                  0.11                            0.12                     0.683
                             Hispanic/Latino                         0.16                            0.17                     0.753
                             Midwest                                 0.20                            0.21                     0.611
                             Northeast                               0.18                            0.18                     0.970
                             South                                   0.40                            0.36                     0.286
                             West                                    0.22                            0.24                     0.438
                             Urban                                   0.69                            0.68                     0.811
                             Bachelor’s degree or higher             0.35                            0.34                     0.905
                             Vote: Biden                             0.57                            0.54                     0.557
                             Vote: Trump                             0.39                            0.42                     0.437
                             Unemployment rate (15-64)               0.13                            0.14                     0.874
                             Home ownership rate                     0.64                            0.68                     0.284


Note: This table displays the characteristics of respondents who received different incentives to answer the
survey: a $3 incentive for the regular incentives and a $4 incentive for the extra incentives. The P-value
of difference column shows the p-value from a two-proportion z-test comparing the proportions of each
characteristics between the two sub-samples. Continuity correction was applied to adjust for the discrete
nature of the data.




                                                                                  99
Table A20: Effects of receiving extra-incentives to answer the survey on support for the three
main climate policies
                                                                                  Support
                                                                     Green              Ban on           Carbon tax
                                                Main climate
                                                                 infrastructure     combustion-engine       with
                                                policies index
                                                                    program               cars          cash transfers
                                                     (1)               (2)                    (3)            (4)
                  Control group mean                  0              0.496                  0.303           0.314
                  Treatment: Extra Incentives       0.006            0.040                   0.043          0.044
                                                   (0.056)          (0.030)                 (0.029)        (0.029)
                  Observations                       960              960                    960             960
                  R2                                0.293            0.172                  0.148           0.117


Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic
characteristics and on a treatment indicator for receiving extra incentives for taking the survey. Only the
coefficient for the treatment indicator is displayed. The dependent variable in column 1 is the Support for
main climate policies index, while the remaining columns are indicator variables equal to 1 if the respondent
(somewhat or strongly) supports each of the policies. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1;
∗∗
   p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                 100
Table A21: Effects of incentivizing correct responses on knowledge and policy perceptions

         Panel A: Knowledge of              CC is real, human-made             GHG emission ranking                     CC gases
            Climate Policies                 & its dynamic index                     index                               index
                                                      (1)                                (2)                               (3)
  Incentives treatment                               0.033                            −0.008                              0.005
                                                    (0.063)                           (0.065)                            (0.066)
  Control group mean                                 -0.002                            0.011                             -0.008
  Observations                                        960                               960                               960
  R2                                                 0.113                             0.060                             0.045


                                          Believes a ban on combustion     Believes a green infrastructure     Believes a carbon tax with
   Panel B: Beliefs about Effectiveness
                                           engine cars would decrease     program would decrease carbon           cash transfers would
           of Climate Policies
                                            CO2 emissions from cars       emissions from electricity sector    decrease carbon emissions
                                                      (1)                                (2)                               (3)
  Incentives treatment                               0.083                             0.102                              0.031
                                                    (0.043)                           (0.046)                            (0.044)
  Control group mean                                 0.434                             0.388                              0.36
  Observations                                        958                               960                               960
  R2                                                 0.068                             0.061                             0.051


                                          Believes a ban on combustion
                                                                           Believes a green infrastructure     Believes low-income earners
  Panel C: Beliefs about Distributional    engine cars would decrease
                                                                             program would increase jobs       would win under a carbon
       Effects of Climate Policies           cost of owning a car for
                                                                         for people without a college degree     tax with cash transfers
                                               low-income families
                                                      (1)                                (2)                               (3)
  Incentives treatment                               0.028                             0.029                              0.030
                                                    (0.045)                           (0.046)                            (0.051)
  Control group mean                                 -0.552                            -0.14                             -0.338
  Observations                                        960                               960                               960
  R2                                                 0.073                             0.110                             0.096


Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic
characteristics and on a treatment indicator for being incentivized to answer the given questions correctly.
Control for receiving extra incentives is also included. Only the coefficients for the treatment indicators
are displayed. In Panel A, the dependent variables are indices. In Panel B and C, the dependent variables
are categorical, where 1 indicates the respondent’s belief aligns with the accurate answer, 0 indicates the
belief is neutral, and -1 indicates the belief is opposite to the accurate answer. For instance, Believes a ban
on combustion-engine car would decrease CO2 emissions from cars equals 1 if the respondent believes the
ban will “decrease” CO2 emissions from cars, 0 if they believe it will “neither increase nor decrease” CO2
emissions, and -1 if they believe it will “increase” CO2 emissions. Robust standard errors are in parentheses;
∗
  p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                101
           Table A22: Correlation between support and beliefs by incentives receipt
                                                                                         Support
                                                                         Ban on              Green       Carbon tax
                                                                     combustion-engine   infrastructure     with
                                                                           cars             program     cash transfers
                                                                            (1)                (2)           (3)
        Control group mean                                                 0.495             0.306          0.305
        Believes the policy would reduce pollution                         0.091             0.077          0.047
                                                                          (0.015)           (0.018)        (0.017)
        Believes own household would lose                                 −0.110            −0.091         −0.132
                                                                          (0.016)           (0.017)        (0.018)
        Believes the policy would reduce emissions                        −0.001             0.055          0.024
                                                                          (0.020)           (0.018)        (0.019)
        Believes low-income earners will lose                             −0.029            −0.051         −0.094
                                                                          (0.020)           (0.019)        (0.022)
        Believes the policy would reduce emissions X Incentivized         −0.004             0.009          0.039
                                                                          (0.026)           (0.022)        (0.024)
        Believes low-income earners will lose X Incentivized               0.039             0.002          0.013
                                                                          (0.026)           (0.024)        (0.025)
        Observations                                                        960               960            960
        R2                                                                 0.371             0.507          0.456

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of indicator variables for support on standardized variables
measuring respondents’ beliefs and the interaction between the effectiveness or distributional beliefs and being
incentivized to answer accurately the given policy-related questions. Control for receiving extra incentives
is also included. Individual socioeconomic characteristics and standard set of indices are included but not
displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for
variable definitions.




                                                               102
           Table A23: Comparison between results of our survey and original surveys (in %).
                                                                             Our Complementary Survey   Original Survey
                              In your view, is global climate change
                            a very serious problem, somewhat serious,
                                not too serious or not a problem?                       75                    74
                       [A somewhat serious problem/A very serious problem]
                                  (Pew Research Center, 2015)
                                Do you think climate change will
                             be a threat to people in your country in
                                        the next 20 years?                              83                    75
                          [Somewhat serious threat/Very serious threat]
                                          (Gallup, 2022)
                                How concerned are you, if at all,
                            that global climate change will harm you
                            personally at some point in your lifetime?                  65                    60
                             [Somewhat concerned/Very concerned]
                                  (Pew Research Center, 2021)
                                  How much do you think climate
                                 change will harm you personally?
                                                                                        59                    52
                                [A moderate amount/A great deal]
                                     (Leiserowitz et al., 2022)
                                How confident are you that actions
                              taken by the international community
                                 will significantly reduce the effects
                                                                                        43                    45
                                      of global climate change?
                               [Somewhat confident/Very confident]
                                    (Pew Research Center, 2021)
                                 Do you think our country does or
                               does not have a responsibility to take
                                steps to deal with climate change?                      74                    82
                                              [Does]
                                        (World Bank, 2009)
                          Do you think actions taken by the international
103                        community to address global climate change,
                               such as the Paris climate agreement,
                              will mostly benefit the U.S. economy,
                                                                                        27                    32
                                 mostly harm the U.S. economy,
                                        or have no impact?
                                [Mostly benefit the U.S. economy]
                                   (Pew Research Center, 2021)
                                   Which of the following are
                                   you most concerned about?
                               The impacts of global warming on...
                                    (Leiserowitz et al., 2006)
                                      [Not at all concerned]                            14                    10
                                      [You and your family]                             13                    12
                                      [Your local community]                            2                     1
                                      [The U.S. as a whole]                             13                    9
                                    [People all over the world]                         50                    50
                                       [Non-human nature]                               8                     18


      Note: This table displays displays responses from similar questions asked in our robustness survey and
      compare them with responses from the original survey. For instance, in the Pew Research Center, 2015
      survey, 74% of respondents indicated that global climate change was either “a somewhat serious problem”
      or a “very serious problem” (column Original Survey). Similarly, in our 2024 survey, 75% of respondents
      gave the same responses to the exact same question (column Our Complementary Survey).
                Table A24: Social desirability bias measured with list experiment
                                                                             Tacit        Stated        P-value of difference
      Support for carbon tax with cash transfers                             0.52           0.53                   0.806
       Willing to limit beef/meat consumption                                0.34           0.38                   0.050

Note: This table displays both stated and tacit support/willingness to change behavior. The P-value of
difference column shows the p-value from a two-proportion z-test comparing the two values. Continuity cor-
rection was applied to adjust for the discrete nature of the data. Tacit support is measured by the difference
in the number of statements agreed with between the treated group (those exposed to the given statement
in addition to the other statements) and the control group (those exposed only to other statements). Stated
support is measured by the average response from the control group in the original U.S. survey, excluding
indifferent respondents for the support for the carbon tax with cash transfers.


A-9        Robustness checks
A-9.1        Treatment effects among attentive respondents
   Table A25 shows that treatment effects are higher (often by about 50%) among respon-
dents who pay attention to the video treatments and respond correctly to at least one of the
comprehension questions after the video.

Table A25: Effects of the treatments on support for climate action, among respondents who
respond correctly to at least one of the comprehension questions
                                                                        Support or Agreement
                                            Green            Ban on            Carbon tax       Fairness of         Adopt
                                        infrastructure   combustion-engine        with         main climate     climate-friendly
                                           program             cars           cash transfers   policies index      behaviors
                                             (1)                (2)                 (3)              (4)              (5)
           Control group mean               0.658              0.516              0.459            -0.083           -0.031
           Treatment: Climate impacts      0.048∗∗∗          0.046∗∗∗            0.053∗∗∗          0.082∗∗∗         0.105∗∗∗
                                           (0.008)           (0.009)             (0.009)           (0.017)          (0.018)
           Treatment: Climate policy       0.047∗∗∗          0.063∗∗∗            0.122∗∗∗          0.166∗∗∗          0.027
                                           (0.008)           (0.008)             (0.008)           (0.017)          (0.017)
           Treatment: Both                 0.081∗∗∗          0.107∗∗∗            0.172∗∗∗          0.246∗∗∗         0.116∗∗∗
                                           (0.008)           (0.009)             (0.009)           (0.018)          (0.018)
           Observations                    31,661             31,661             31,661            31,661           31,661
           R2                              0.100              0.098              0.105             0.156            0.108

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic charac-
teristics, controlling for country fixed effects. Only the coefficients for the treatment effects are displayed.
Dependent variables are indicator variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each
of the main climate policies (columns 1, 2, 3), or indices (4, 5). Robust standard errors are in parentheses
∗
  p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                 104
A-9.2       Main results on different samples
     After the questions on the three main policies, one question asked respondents to tick “A
little” in a 5-point scale ranging from “Not at all” to “A lot” to test their attention. Among
the 45,349 complete responses with a duration deemed sufficient (above 11 min),35 40,680
succeed the attention test (90%). The latter constitute our benchmark sample. In Tables
A26 to A31, we reproduce the main results among the extended sample that also includes
respondents who failed the test of attention. All descriptive statistics and coefficients are
very close in the extended sample, showing that our results are robust to the inclusion of
respondents who lack attention.
     Conversely, if we choose a higher cutoff for the minimal duration and retain only the
30,775 respondents who answered in more than 20 minutes, we also obtain descriptive statis-
tics and coefficients very close to our benchmark results (tables are not shown for the sake
of brevity).




  35
    This duration cutoff was negotiated by the survey company, as one-third of the median duration is the
usually cutoff.




                                                  105
Table A26: Correlation between knowledge and individual characteristics on the extended
sample
                                                                    Knowledge of climate change
                                             Knowledge
                                                          Footprint    Fundamentals    Greenhouse gases   Impacts
                                               index
                                                 (1)         (2)             (3)              (4)            (5)
               Control group mean               -0.068     -0.029          -0.038            -0.115         0.007


                 Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
               Gender: Woman                  −0.121∗∗∗   −0.082∗∗∗        0.006           −0.123∗∗∗      −0.104∗∗∗
                                               (0.010)     (0.011)        (0.011)           (0.011)        (0.011)
               Lives with child(ren) under 14 −0.150∗∗∗   −0.125∗∗∗      −0.041∗∗∗         −0.103∗∗∗      −0.099∗∗∗
                                               (0.012)     (0.012)        (0.013)           (0.013)        (0.013)
               Age: 25 - 34                   −0.072∗∗∗    −0.012        −0.088∗∗∗         −0.076∗∗∗       −0.018
                                               (0.019)     (0.019)        (0.019)           (0.022)        (0.021)
               Age: 35 - 49                    −0.019      0.040∗∗       −0.076∗∗∗         −0.084∗∗∗      0.053∗∗∗
                                               (0.018)     (0.018)        (0.018)           (0.020)        (0.020)
               Age: 50 or older                0.174∗∗∗   0.222∗∗∗       −0.035∗∗            0.028        0.180∗∗∗
                                               (0.017)     (0.017)        (0.017)           (0.019)        (0.018)
               Household income: Q2            0.102∗∗∗   0.041∗∗∗       0.048∗∗∗           0.111∗∗∗      0.068∗∗∗
                                               (0.014)     (0.014)        (0.015)           (0.016)        (0.015)
               Household income: Q3            0.132∗∗∗   0.082∗∗∗       0.044∗∗∗           0.122∗∗∗      0.087∗∗∗
                                               (0.015)     (0.015)        (0.016)           (0.016)        (0.016)
               Household income: Q4            0.203∗∗∗   0.138∗∗∗       0.063∗∗∗           0.154∗∗∗      0.153∗∗∗
                                               (0.016)     (0.016)        (0.017)           (0.018)        (0.017)
               Highest diploma: College       0.413∗∗∗    0.236∗∗∗       0.230∗∗∗           0.286∗∗∗      0.308∗∗∗
                                               (0.020)     (0.020)        (0.021)           (0.022)        (0.022)
               Highest diploma: High school   0.254∗∗∗    0.117∗∗∗       0.153∗∗∗           0.193∗∗∗      0.200∗∗∗
                                               (0.019)     (0.020)        (0.020)           (0.022)        (0.021)
               Economic Leaning: Very Left    −0.064∗∗    −0.091∗∗∗      0.073∗∗∗           −0.035        −0.088∗∗∗
                                               (0.026)     (0.025)        (0.026)           (0.027)        (0.025)
               Economic Leaning: Center       −0.223∗∗∗   −0.184∗∗∗      −0.176∗∗∗         −0.084∗∗∗      −0.101∗∗∗
                                               (0.016)     (0.015)        (0.017)           (0.017)        (0.016)
               Economic Leaning: Right        −0.309∗∗∗   −0.208∗∗∗      −0.325∗∗∗         −0.098∗∗∗      −0.147∗∗∗
                                               (0.018)     (0.018)        (0.019)           (0.019)        (0.019)
               Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.429∗∗∗   −0.329∗∗∗      −0.277∗∗∗         −0.174∗∗∗      −0.285∗∗∗
                                               (0.020)     (0.020)        (0.022)           (0.022)        (0.022)
               Treatment: Climate Impacts     0.136∗∗∗    0.052∗∗∗       0.108∗∗∗           0.168∗∗∗       0.026∗
                                               (0.014)     (0.014)        (0.015)           (0.016)        (0.015)
               Treatment: Climate Policies     0.036∗∗      0.015         −0.003            0.123∗∗∗      −0.047∗∗∗
                                               (0.015)     (0.014)        (0.015)           (0.016)        (0.015)
               Treatment: Both                 0.092∗∗∗    0.026∗        0.051∗∗∗           0.180∗∗∗       −0.019
                                               (0.014)     (0.014)        (0.015)           (0.016)        (0.015)



                 Panel B: Energy usage indicators
               Agglomeration size: Small       0.003        0.017         −0.021           −0.031∗         0.036∗∗
                                              (0.017)      (0.017)        (0.018)           (0.018)        (0.018)
               Agglomeration size: Medium    0.066∗∗∗     0.056∗∗∗        0.033∗             0.021         0.051∗∗
                                              (0.019)      (0.019)        (0.020)           (0.020)        (0.020)
               Agglomeration size: Large     0.087∗∗∗     0.067∗∗∗       0.063∗∗∗            0.014        0.073∗∗∗
                                              (0.018)      (0.017)        (0.019)           (0.019)        (0.019)
               Public transport available     0.022∗∗     −0.042∗∗∗      0.050∗∗∗            0.015        0.062∗∗∗
                                              (0.011)      (0.011)        (0.012)           (0.012)        (0.012)
               Uses car                       0.094∗∗∗    0.038∗∗∗       0.061∗∗∗           0.071∗∗∗      0.081∗∗∗
                                              (0.014)      (0.014)        (0.014)           (0.015)        (0.015)
               High gas expenses             −0.091∗∗∗    −0.077∗∗∗      −0.031∗∗          −0.056∗∗∗      −0.059∗∗∗
                                              (0.012)      (0.011)        (0.012)           (0.013)        (0.012)
               High heating expenses          −0.019      −0.035∗∗∗        0.005             0.008         −0.016
                                              (0.012)      (0.012)        (0.013)           (0.013)        (0.013)
               Flies more than once a year    0.030∗∗       0.012        0.042∗∗∗           −0.001         0.028∗∗
                                              (0.012)      (0.012)        (0.013)           (0.013)        (0.013)
               Works in polluting sector     −0.175∗∗∗    −0.116∗∗∗      −0.075∗∗∗         −0.118∗∗∗      −0.132∗∗∗
                                              (0.015)      (0.015)        (0.015)           (0.016)        (0.016)
               Eats beef/meat weekly or more −0.038∗∗∗    −0.055∗∗∗      −0.058∗∗∗          0.040∗∗∗       −0.012
                                              (0.011)      (0.011)        (0.012)           (0.012)        (0.012)
               Owner or landlord               0.003       −0.012         −0.016             0.019         0.025∗
                                              (0.013)      (0.013)        (0.013)           (0.014)        (0.013)
               Observations                    45,349      45,349          45,349            45,349        45,349
               R2                              0.180        0.172          0.049             0.075         0.079

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the knowledge indices on socioeconomic indicators (Panel
A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B), controlling for country fixed effects. Panel B also controls for
socioeconomic indicators, but the coefficients are not displayed. The dependent variable in column 1 is the
Knowledge index, whose components are the indices in the remaining columns. Robust standard errors are
in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.
                                                             106
      Table A27: Correlation between support for the main climate policies and individual char-
      acteristics on the extended sample
                                                                                       Support
                                                                          Green              Ban on           Carbon tax
                                                     Main climate
                                                                      infrastructure     combustion-engine       with
                                                     policies index
                                                                         program               cars          cash transfers
                                                          (1)              (2)                    (3)             (4)
                       Control group mean               -0.084            0.648                  0.509           0.459


                         Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
                       Gender: Woman                   0.044∗∗∗           0.006                0.005           −0.011∗∗
                                                       (0.011)           (0.005)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       Lives with child(ren) under 14  0.122∗∗∗         0.032∗∗∗             0.051∗∗∗          0.056∗∗∗
                                                       (0.012)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       Age: 25 - 34                    0.055∗∗∗           0.013               0.024∗∗           0.022∗∗
                                                       (0.018)           (0.009)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                       Age: 35 - 49                    0.087∗∗∗         0.030∗∗∗             0.046∗∗∗          0.042∗∗∗
                                                       (0.017)           (0.009)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                       Age: 50 or older                0.149∗∗∗         0.077∗∗∗             0.095∗∗∗          0.086∗∗∗
                                                       (0.016)           (0.008)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                       Household income: Q2            0.059∗∗∗         0.036∗∗∗             0.036∗∗∗          0.022∗∗∗
                                                       (0.014)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                       Household income: Q3            0.083∗∗∗         0.050∗∗∗             0.049∗∗∗          0.033∗∗∗
                                                       (0.016)           (0.008)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                       Household income: Q4            0.070∗∗∗         0.047∗∗∗             0.047∗∗∗          0.035∗∗∗
                                                       (0.017)           (0.008)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                       Highest diploma: College        0.152∗∗∗         0.098∗∗∗             0.091∗∗∗          0.069∗∗∗
                                                       (0.020)           (0.010)              (0.011)           (0.010)
                       Highest diploma: High school    0.082∗∗∗         0.061∗∗∗             0.049∗∗∗          0.039∗∗∗
                                                       (0.019)           (0.010)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                       Economic Leaning: Very Left     0.111∗∗∗           0.006               0.028∗∗           0.026∗∗
                                                       (0.025)           (0.011)              (0.013)           (0.013)
                       Economic Leaning: Center       −0.231∗∗∗         −0.114∗∗∗            −0.105∗∗∗         −0.100∗∗∗
                                                       (0.015)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.008)
                       Economic Leaning: Right        −0.329∗∗∗         −0.118∗∗∗            −0.103∗∗∗         −0.077∗∗∗
                                                       (0.018)           (0.009)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                       Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.203∗∗∗         −0.117∗∗∗            −0.062∗∗∗         −0.052∗∗∗
                                                       (0.023)           (0.010)              (0.011)           (0.011)
                       Treatment: Climate Impacts      0.055∗∗∗          0.018∗∗             0.021∗∗∗           0.030∗∗∗
107                                                    (0.014)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.007)
                       Treatment: Climate Policies     0.127∗∗∗         0.027∗∗∗             0.047∗∗∗           0.098∗∗∗
                                                       (0.015)           (0.007)              (0.007)           (0.007)
                       Treatment: Both                 0.182∗∗∗         0.040∗∗∗             0.070∗∗∗           0.115∗∗∗
                                                       (0.015)           (0.007)              (0.007)           (0.007)



                         Panel B: Energy usage indicators
                       Agglomeration size: Small       0.049∗∗∗          0.017∗∗              0.014∗             0.001
                                                       (0.017)           (0.008)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                       Agglomeration size: Medium      0.044∗∗           0.023∗∗              0.019∗∗            0.009
                                                       (0.019)           (0.009)              (0.010)           (0.010)
                       Agglomeration size: Large       0.080∗∗∗         0.026∗∗∗             0.029∗∗∗            0.009
                                                       (0.018)           (0.009)              (0.009)           (0.009)
                       Public transport available      0.282∗∗∗         0.096∗∗∗             0.100∗∗∗          0.114∗∗∗
                                                       (0.011)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       Uses car                       −0.133∗∗∗         −0.015∗∗             −0.049∗∗∗         −0.039∗∗∗
                                                       (0.013)           (0.007)              (0.007)           (0.007)
                       High gas expenses              −0.052∗∗∗         −0.020∗∗∗            −0.021∗∗∗         −0.014∗∗
                                                       (0.011)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       High heating expenses           0.040∗∗∗         0.031∗∗∗             0.027∗∗∗           0.026∗∗∗
                                                       (0.012)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       Flies more than once a year     0.128∗∗∗         0.047∗∗∗             0.059∗∗∗           0.060∗∗∗
                                                       (0.012)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       Works in polluting sector        0.010            −0.001               −0.004            0.018∗∗
                                                       (0.014)           (0.007)              (0.008)           (0.007)
                       Eats beef/meat weekly or more  −0.066∗∗∗         −0.026∗∗∗            −0.029∗∗∗          −0.008
                                                       (0.011)           (0.006)              (0.006)           (0.006)
                       Owner or landlord                0.023∗           0.011∗               0.012∗            0.020∗∗∗
                                                       (0.013)           (0.006)              (0.007)           (0.007)
                       Observations                     45,349           45,349                  45,349         45,349
                       R2                               0.163            0.106                   0.104          0.113

      Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the variables listed in the columns on socioeconomic
      characteristics (Panel A) and on energy usage characteristics (Panel B), controlling for country fixed effects.
      Panel B also controls for socioeconomic characteristics, but the coefficients are not displayed. The dependent
      variable in column 1 is the Support for main climate policies index, while the remaining columns are indicator
      variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each of the policies. Robust standard
      errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.
  Table A28: Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
  characteristics in high-income countries on the extended sample
                                                                                   Support for main climate policies index
                                 AUS         CAN         DEU         DNK         ESP         FRA          GBR          ITA        JPN         KOR         POL         USA
                                  (1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)         (6)          (7)          (8)        (9)        (10)        (11)        (12)
Control group mean               -0.199      -0.11      -0.118      -0.132      -0.108       -0.074      -0.101        -0.17     -0.098      -0.073      -0.071       0.023


  Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
Gender: Woman                   −0.004     −0.123∗∗∗   −0.077∗     0.126∗∗∗      0.055       0.027        0.005       0.033     0.190∗∗∗     −0.062      0.096∗∗      0.001
                                (0.053)     (0.044)     (0.044)     (0.044)     (0.042)     (0.052)      (0.044)     (0.045)     (0.049)     (0.053)     (0.045)     (0.043)
Lives with child(ren) under 14 0.221∗∗∗     0.152∗∗∗    0.137∗∗     −0.040      0.099∗∗    0.176∗∗∗     0.198∗∗∗     0.110∗       0.074       0.053     0.137∗∗∗     0.097∗∗
                                (0.059)     (0.048)     (0.058)     (0.053)     (0.049)     (0.062)      (0.051)     (0.058)     (0.061)     (0.066)     (0.051)     (0.043)
Age: 25 - 34                    −0.106       0.018     −0.260∗∗∗     0.034       0.001      −0.109       −0.070      −0.110       0.002       0.074      −0.094      0.199∗∗∗
                                (0.077)     (0.084)     (0.085)     (0.084)     (0.077)     (0.093)      (0.072)     (0.088)     (0.090)     (0.103)     (0.085)     (0.064)
Age: 35 - 49                    −0.112      −0.126     −0.237∗∗∗    −0.042      −0.109     −0.245∗∗∗      0.116      −0.112       0.124       0.131       0.021     0.176∗∗∗
                                (0.082)     (0.082)     (0.083)     (0.081)     (0.072)     (0.085)      (0.072)     (0.085)     (0.085)     (0.097)     (0.077)     (0.066)
Age: 50 or older               −0.241∗∗∗    −0.051     −0.294∗∗∗    −0.006       0.011     −0.362∗∗∗     −0.067      −0.053      0.324∗∗∗   0.412∗∗∗    0.262∗∗∗    −0.221∗∗∗
                                (0.078)     (0.075)     (0.078)     (0.078)     (0.066)     (0.082)      (0.070)     (0.077)     (0.079)     (0.087)     (0.073)     (0.062)
Household income: Q2            0.128∗∗      0.047     −0.101∗      −0.016       0.098     −0.110∗       −0.013      0.100∗      0.133∗∗      0.070     0.178∗∗∗     −0.005
                                (0.052)     (0.061)     (0.060)     (0.059)     (0.059)     (0.060)      (0.056)     (0.059)     (0.060)     (0.069)     (0.061)     (0.052)
Household income: Q3            0.204∗∗∗     0.056      −0.008      −0.008       0.119∗     −0.074        0.027      0.145∗∗     0.185∗∗∗   0.182∗∗∗     0.120∗       0.017
                                (0.066)     (0.062)     (0.062)     (0.060)     (0.062)     (0.072)      (0.059)     (0.064)     (0.061)     (0.066)     (0.062)     (0.064)
Household income: Q4             0.075       0.018      −0.091      −0.017       0.084      −0.116        0.080     0.209∗∗∗      0.108       0.139     0.181∗∗∗      0.082
                                (0.088)     (0.072)     (0.064)     (0.072)     (0.062)     (0.083)      (0.063)     (0.070)     (0.069)     (0.085)     (0.067)     (0.069)
Highest diploma: College        0.267∗∗∗     0.013       0.010      0.174∗∗     0.157∗∗      0.092      0.314∗∗∗    0.245∗∗∗      0.237     −0.481∗∗∗    −0.065      0.292∗∗∗
                                (0.097)     (0.075)     (0.071)     (0.075)     (0.068)     (0.084)      (0.066)     (0.076)     (0.163)     (0.155)     (0.148)     (0.101)
Highest diploma: High school     0.052      −0.111     −0.120∗       0.095       0.129∗     −0.044        0.078      0.133∗∗      0.098     −0.583∗∗∗    −0.079      0.208∗∗
                                (0.090)     (0.073)     (0.062)     (0.069)     (0.069)     (0.074)      (0.064)     (0.066)     (0.162)     (0.158)     (0.144)     (0.097)
Economic Leaning: Very Left      0.024      −0.001       0.130     0.414∗∗∗      0.101      −0.235        0.027      −0.004       0.106       0.021      −0.129      0.319∗∗∗
                                (0.115)     (0.098)     (0.128)     (0.108)     (0.069)     (0.188)      (0.109)     (0.083)     (0.181)     (0.165)     (0.095)     (0.066)
Economic Leaning: Center       −0.518∗∗∗   −0.372∗∗∗   −0.402∗∗∗   −0.272∗∗∗   −0.274∗∗∗    −0.073      −0.454∗∗∗   −0.269∗∗∗   −0.256∗∗∗   −0.402∗∗∗   −0.107∗     −0.370∗∗∗
                                (0.073)     (0.059)     (0.056)     (0.054)     (0.052)     (0.077)      (0.061)     (0.054)     (0.067)     (0.072)     (0.059)     (0.053)
Economic Leaning: Right        −0.656∗∗∗   −0.534∗∗∗   −0.671∗∗∗   −0.707∗∗∗   −0.580∗∗∗   −0.254∗∗∗    −0.429∗∗∗   −0.304∗∗∗   −0.342∗∗∗   −0.452∗∗∗   −0.315∗∗∗   −0.817∗∗∗
                                (0.089)     (0.074)     (0.076)     (0.063)     (0.067)     (0.079)      (0.072)     (0.064)     (0.085)     (0.086)     (0.077)     (0.068)
Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.499∗∗∗   −0.663∗∗∗   −0.582∗∗∗   −0.606∗∗∗   −0.683∗∗∗   −0.466∗∗∗     −0.048     −0.526∗∗∗   −0.688∗∗∗   −0.451∗∗∗   −0.429∗∗∗   −0.823∗∗∗
                                (0.134)     (0.113)     (0.131)     (0.156)     (0.091)     (0.110)      (0.099)     (0.102)     (0.134)     (0.154)     (0.094)     (0.080)
Treatment: Climate Impacts     0.204∗∗∗      0.011       0.071      0.131∗∗      0.031       0.023        0.046      0.121∗       0.033       0.031       0.082      −0.083
                                (0.073)     (0.061)     (0.057)     (0.056)     (0.059)     (0.067)      (0.056)     (0.062)     (0.060)     (0.069)     (0.060)     (0.056)
Treatment: Climate Policies     0.235∗∗∗    0.237∗∗∗   0.210∗∗∗     0.137∗∗     0.128∗∗      0.059       0.100∗     0.297∗∗∗     0.156∗∗      0.094      0.135∗∗      0.016
                                (0.068)     (0.061)     (0.061)     (0.057)     (0.061)     (0.069)      (0.057)     (0.059)     (0.062)     (0.073)     (0.060)     (0.059)
Treatment: Both                 0.326∗∗∗    0.212∗∗∗   0.200∗∗∗    0.259∗∗∗     0.288∗∗∗    0.177∗∗     0.256∗∗∗    0.304∗∗∗     0.198∗∗∗   0.187∗∗∗     0.142∗∗      0.033
                                (0.078)     (0.057)     (0.059)     (0.059)     (0.057)     (0.073)      (0.055)     (0.064)     (0.062)     (0.069)     (0.061)     (0.061)



  Panel B: Energy usage indicators
Agglomeration size: Small       0.079        0.084       0.035     0.285∗∗∗      0.052       0.095        0.043      0.199∗∗∗     0.074      0.088       −0.019      0.129∗∗
                               (0.105)      (0.079)     (0.065)     (0.061)     (0.082)     (0.064)      (0.063)     (0.067)     (0.161)    (0.175)      (0.062)    (0.060)
Agglomeration size: Medium      0.103        0.102      −0.004      0.267∗∗∗     0.083       0.119        0.065       0.161∗∗     0.085      0.135        0.001       0.048
                               (0.109)      (0.081)     (0.072)     (0.062)     (0.083)     (0.084)      (0.075)     (0.079)     (0.162)    (0.181)      (0.067)    (0.069)
Agglomeration size: Large       0.080        0.082       0.047     0.235∗∗∗      0.059      0.175∗        0.107        0.016      0.080      0.061        0.009     0.261∗∗∗
                               (0.104)      (0.077)     (0.071)     (0.067)     (0.081)     (0.093)      (0.069)     (0.084)     (0.160)    (0.172)      (0.070)    (0.064)
Public transport available     0.391∗∗∗     0.298∗∗∗   0.284∗∗∗    0.319∗∗∗    0.246∗∗∗    0.255∗∗∗     0.298∗∗∗     0.251∗∗∗     0.074     0.229∗∗∗    0.176∗∗∗    0.288∗∗∗
                               (0.052)      (0.045)     (0.044)     (0.044)     (0.045)     (0.056)      (0.042)     (0.054)     (0.049)    (0.054)      (0.048)    (0.044)
Uses car                      −0.234∗∗∗    −0.153∗∗    −0.282∗∗∗   −0.105∗∗    −0.212∗∗∗   −0.325∗∗∗    −0.285∗∗∗    −0.144∗∗   −0.160∗∗∗   −0.147∗∗    −0.297∗∗∗     0.009
                               (0.071)      (0.062)     (0.051)     (0.049)     (0.053)     (0.074)      (0.049)     (0.064)     (0.060)    (0.062)      (0.058)    (0.057)
High gas expenses              −0.052      −0.141∗∗∗   −0.166∗∗∗   −0.189∗∗∗     0.056      −0.025       −0.078      0.134∗∗∗   −0.097∗     −0.019       −0.052     −0.043
                               (0.053)      (0.046)     (0.047)     (0.044)     (0.046)     (0.054)      (0.047)     (0.045)     (0.055)    (0.056)      (0.047)    (0.044)
High heating expenses          0.119∗∗       0.047     0.125∗∗∗      0.027      −0.003       0.027        0.050      −0.053       0.068     0.148∗∗∗    0.125∗∗∗    0.098∗∗
                               (0.053)      (0.046)     (0.045)     (0.044)     (0.045)     (0.052)      (0.041)     (0.046)     (0.046)    (0.053)      (0.048)    (0.043)
Flies more than once a year   0.172∗∗∗       0.089∗     0.100∗∗     0.087∗∗     0.174∗∗∗     0.039       −0.040      0.162∗∗∗    0.173∗∗∗   0.157∗∗∗     0.134∗∗    0.156∗∗∗
                               (0.055)      (0.049)     (0.050)     (0.043)     (0.044)     (0.064)      (0.045)     (0.049)     (0.054)    (0.054)      (0.059)    (0.045)
Works in polluting sector      −0.050       −0.054       0.098      −0.037       0.051       0.089        0.053      −0.014      −0.021      0.061        0.048      0.137∗∗
                               (0.071)      (0.066)     (0.061)     (0.070)     (0.067)     (0.070)      (0.063)     (0.082)     (0.065)    (0.065)      (0.060)    (0.062)
Eats beef/meat weekly or more −0.108∗∗     −0.107∗∗    −0.208∗∗∗   −0.246∗∗∗   −0.189∗∗∗   −0.172∗∗∗     −0.045      −0.043       0.034     −0.036       −0.063     −0.072
                               (0.048)      (0.043)     (0.048)     (0.042)     (0.043)     (0.050)      (0.042)     (0.045)     (0.048)    (0.059)      (0.062)    (0.046)
Owner or landlord               0.090        0.019       0.017      −0.075      −0.034       0.067        0.052      −0.010      0.132∗∗     0.019       −0.009     −0.115∗∗
                               (0.056)      (0.052)     (0.048)     (0.048)     (0.049)     (0.060)      (0.048)     (0.055)     (0.052)    (0.057)      (0.056)    (0.052)
Observations                     2,196       2,220       2,177       2,241       2,399       2,210        2,368        2,236      2,094       2,055       2,202       2,597
R2                               0.178       0.108       0.143       0.204       0.126       0.121        0.159        0.095      0.082       0.112       0.075       0.263

  Note: The table shows the results of regressions of Support for main climate policies index on socioeconomic
  indicators (Panel A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B). Panel B also controls for socioeconomic indi-
  cators, but the coefficients are not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05;
  ∗∗∗
      p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                                   108
Table A29: Correlation between Support for main climate policies index and individual
characteristics in middle-income countries on the extended sample
                                                                         Support for main climate policies index
                                                  BRA        CHN         IDN        IND        MEX         TUR        UKR        ZAF
                                                   (1)        (2)        (3)        (4)         (5)         (6)        (7)        (8)
                Control group mean               -0.119      -0.117     -0.057     -0.078      -0.079      -0.042     -0.113     -0.114


                  Panel A: Socio-economic indicators
                Gender: Woman                    0.087       0.071     0.113∗∗∗    0.049      −0.095      −0.034      0.031     −0.100∗
                                               (0.059)      (0.063)    (0.040)    (0.049)     (0.061)     (0.061)    (0.060)    (0.057)
                Lives with child(ren) under 14 0.137∗∗      −0.144∗    0.300∗∗∗    0.019      0.157∗∗∗    0.375∗∗∗   −0.082      0.067
                                               (0.064)      (0.081)    (0.052)    (0.057)     (0.060)     (0.068)    (0.064)    (0.061)
                Age: 25 - 34                     0.046      0.449∗∗∗    0.039     0.198∗∗∗     0.117       0.105      0.183∗    −0.008
                                               (0.085)      (0.117)    (0.057)    (0.075)     (0.085)     (0.093)    (0.102)    (0.077)
                Age: 35 - 49                   0.254∗∗∗     0.534∗∗∗   0.224∗∗∗   0.221∗∗∗     0.089       0.053     0.326∗∗∗   −0.056
                                               (0.078)      (0.111)    (0.057)    (0.076)     (0.079)     (0.079)    (0.088)    (0.077)
                Age: 50 or older               0.228∗∗∗     0.752∗∗∗   0.535∗∗∗   0.518∗∗∗    0.410∗∗∗    0.574∗∗∗   0.315∗∗∗    0.053
                                               (0.078)      (0.106)    (0.070)    (0.065)     (0.084)     (0.082)    (0.093)    (0.083)
                Household income: Q2             0.073       0.042     0.259∗∗∗   0.214∗∗∗     0.039       0.125      0.164∗     0.091
                                               (0.079)      (0.104)    (0.053)    (0.073)     (0.079)     (0.088)    (0.091)    (0.080)
                Household income: Q3           0.262∗∗∗      0.125     0.338∗∗∗   0.297∗∗∗     0.078      −0.010      0.134     −0.007
                                               (0.088)      (0.114)    (0.061)    (0.076)     (0.086)     (0.095)    (0.097)    (0.081)
                Household income: Q4            0.202∗∗     0.248∗∗    0.419∗∗∗   0.253∗∗∗     0.056      0.243∗∗     0.149     −0.140
                                               (0.093)      (0.099)    (0.061)    (0.068)     (0.096)     (0.102)    (0.096)    (0.092)
                Highest diploma: College        0.328∗∗     0.328∗∗∗   0.493∗∗∗   0.745∗∗∗    0.246∗∗∗     0.160∗     0.061      0.095
                                               (0.130)      (0.103)    (0.085)    (0.111)     (0.085)     (0.086)    (0.212)    (0.121)
                Highest diploma: High school    0.237∗      0.335∗∗∗   0.440∗∗∗   0.536∗∗∗    0.185∗∗     −0.082      0.212      0.042
                                               (0.125)      (0.097)    (0.083)    (0.110)     (0.082)     (0.092)    (0.210)    (0.114)
                Economic Leaning: Very Left      0.100      0.450∗∗∗    0.072      0.251       0.063      0.324∗∗∗    0.065     0.478∗∗∗
                                               (0.110)      (0.160)    (0.142)    (0.165)     (0.146)     (0.116)    (0.157)    (0.128)
                Economic Leaning: Center       −0.215∗∗     0.226∗∗    −0.107      0.062      −0.143       0.046      0.135     −0.0001
                                               (0.086)      (0.090)    (0.073)    (0.101)     (0.106)     (0.092)    (0.109)    (0.087)
                Economic Leaning: Right        −0.190∗       0.178∗    −0.036      0.210∗      0.087       0.069     0.440∗∗∗    0.073
                                               (0.103)      (0.094)    (0.080)    (0.108)     (0.114)     (0.113)    (0.120)    (0.101)
                Economic Leaning: Very Right   −0.177∗      0.524∗∗∗   0.453∗∗∗   0.355∗∗∗    −0.075      −0.033     0.465∗∗∗    0.227∗
                                               (0.102)      (0.167)    (0.084)    (0.112)     (0.127)     (0.118)    (0.117)    (0.119)
                Treatment: Climate Impacts       0.108       0.159∗     0.062      0.010       0.128∗     −0.104      0.062      0.114
                                               (0.079)      (0.087)    (0.050)    (0.068)     (0.076)     (0.081)    (0.077)    (0.076)
                Treatment: Climate Policies     0.145∗       0.084      0.065     0.159∗∗      0.061       0.141∗     0.149∗    0.182∗∗
                                               (0.080)      (0.090)    (0.051)    (0.064)     (0.085)     (0.082)    (0.083)    (0.080)
                Treatment: Both                0.243∗∗∗     0.245∗∗∗   0.126∗∗     0.078       0.154∗      0.107     0.224∗∗∗   0.230∗∗∗
                                               (0.082)      (0.090)    (0.049)    (0.071)     (0.079)     (0.078)    (0.085)    (0.078)



                  Panel B: Energy usage indicators
                Agglomeration size: Small     −0.069         0.096      0.081      0.012      0.092       0.603∗∗∗   −0.051      0.089
                                              (0.145)       (0.105)    (0.055)    (0.068)    (0.107)      (0.211)    (0.108)    (0.089)
                Agglomeration size: Medium     0.110        −0.030     0.173∗∗∗    0.025      0.187        0.219     −0.054     −0.023
                                              (0.142)       (0.131)    (0.067)    (0.093)    (0.116)      (0.202)    (0.117)    (0.117)
                Agglomeration size: Large      0.162         0.238∗     0.063     −0.009      0.160       0.394∗∗     0.011      0.047
                                              (0.136)       (0.126)    (0.060)    (0.074)    (0.100)      (0.191)    (0.111)    (0.092)
                Public transport available    0.194∗∗∗       0.068     0.378∗∗∗   0.234∗∗∗    0.016      0.178∗∗∗     0.117∗    0.255∗∗∗
                                              (0.064)       (0.072)    (0.047)    (0.058)    (0.081)      (0.058)    (0.068)    (0.056)
                Uses car                      −0.030        0.163∗∗    0.192∗∗    0.258∗∗∗   −0.124∗      −0.026     −0.042     −0.037
                                              (0.075)       (0.069)    (0.092)    (0.058)    (0.073)      (0.069)    (0.074)    (0.071)
                High gas expenses              0.027        −0.037     −0.047                −0.149∗∗     −0.044     −0.121     −0.046
                                              (0.061)       (0.078)    (0.041)               (0.061)      (0.067)    (0.074)    (0.060)
                High heating expenses                        0.088                                       −0.215∗∗∗   −0.017     0.127∗∗
                                                            (0.075)                                       (0.068)    (0.062)    (0.057)
                Flies more than once a year       0.082      0.067     0.218∗∗∗   −0.104      0.171∗∗     0.162∗∗    −0.205∗∗    0.113
                                                 (0.072)    (0.085)    (0.046)    (0.066)     (0.072)     (0.072)    (0.087)    (0.078)
                Works in polluting sector       −0.381∗∗∗   0.267∗∗∗   −0.122∗∗   −0.126∗      0.011       0.066      0.045      0.007
                                                 (0.079)    (0.066)    (0.049)    (0.066)     (0.067)     (0.072)    (0.072)    (0.074)
                Eats beef/meat weekly or more     0.042     −0.127     −0.010      0.109∗      0.054       0.076      0.041     −0.075
                                                 (0.067)    (0.078)    (0.039)    (0.061)     (0.063)     (0.063)    (0.067)    (0.058)
                Owner or landlord                 0.005     0.171∗∗    0.226∗∗∗   0.235∗∗∗     0.103       0.059      0.058      0.051
                                                 (0.063)    (0.080)    (0.063)    (0.069)     (0.072)     (0.063)    (0.073)    (0.059)
                Observations                      2,148      1,842      2,929      3,010       2,242       2,097      1,767      2,319
                R2                                0.093      0.154      0.371      0.197       0.067       0.163      0.076      0.066

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of Support for main climate policies index on socioeconomic
indicators (Panel A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B). Panel B also controls for socioeconomic indi-
cators, but the coefficients are not displayed. Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05;
∗∗∗
    p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                         109
Table A30: Correlation between knowledge or support for the main climate policies and
beliefs on the extended sample
                                                                                     Knowledge or Support
                                                                                         Green            Ban on           Carbon tax
                                                        Knowledge   Main climate
                                                                                     infrastructure   combustion-engine       with
                                                          index     policies index
                                                                                        program             cars          cash transfers
                                                           (1)           (2)              (3)                (4)               (5)
      Control group mean                                  -0.068       -0.084            0.648              0.509             0.459
      Trusts the governement                            0.000∗∗∗      0.042∗∗∗         0.008∗∗∗            0.007∗∗∗         0.021∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.002)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Believes inequality is an important problem       0.000∗∗∗      0.044∗∗∗         0.013∗∗∗            0.010∗∗∗         0.026∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.002)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Worries about the consequences of CC              −0.000∗∗∗     0.046∗∗∗         0.018∗∗∗            0.017∗∗∗          0.007∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.003)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Believes net-zero is technically feasible         −0.000∗∗∗     0.027∗∗∗         0.010∗∗∗            0.011∗∗∗           0.004
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.003)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Believes will suffer from climate change          −0.000∗∗∗     0.055∗∗∗         0.022∗∗∗            0.027∗∗∗         0.010∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.005)          (0.003)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Understands emission across activities/regions    0.517∗∗∗      0.010∗∗∗         0.012∗∗∗            0.010∗∗∗         0.007∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.002)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Knows CC is real & caused by human                 0.355∗∗∗     0.063∗∗∗         0.021∗∗∗            0.020∗∗∗          0.006∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.002)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Knows which gases cause CC                        0.367∗∗∗      0.010∗∗∗         0.010∗∗∗            0.007∗∗∗         0.010∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.003)          (0.002)            (0.002)           (0.002)
      Understands impacts of CC                          0.340∗∗∗      −0.001           0.005∗            −0.005∗           −0.009∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.003)            (0.003)           (0.003)
      Believes policies entail positive econ. effects    −0.000       0.074∗∗∗         0.024∗∗∗            0.017∗∗∗         0.017∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.002)            (0.002)           (0.002)
      Believes policies would reduce pollution            0.000       0.124∗∗∗         0.087∗∗∗            0.057∗∗∗         0.028∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.007)          (0.004)            (0.005)           (0.004)
      Believes policies would reduce emissions           −0.000       0.257∗∗∗         0.082∗∗∗            0.086∗∗∗         0.118∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.008)          (0.005)            (0.005)           (0.005)
      Believes own household would lose                  −0.000       −0.340∗∗∗        −0.086∗∗∗          −0.117∗∗∗         −0.116∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.006)          (0.004)            (0.004)           (0.004)
      Believes low-income earners will lose              −0.000       −0.064∗∗∗         0.0004            −0.015∗∗∗         −0.038∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.006)          (0.003)            (0.004)           (0.004)
      Believes high-income earners will lose             −0.000       0.018∗∗∗          0.005∗∗            0.007∗∗∗         0.011∗∗∗
                                                         (0.000)       (0.004)          (0.002)            (0.002)           (0.002)
      Observations                                       45,349        45,349           45,349              45,349           45,349
      R2                                                 1.000         0.694            0.385               0.358            0.375

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of the knowledge indices on socioeconomic indicators (Panel
A) and on energy usage indicators (Panel B), controlling for country fixed effects. Panel B also controls for
socioeconomic indicators, but the coefficients are not displayed. The dependent variable in column 1 is the
Knowledge index, whose components are the indices in the remaining columns. Robust standard errors are
in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




A-9.3         Attrition analysis
    The survey companies do not disclose the number of invites they send. Among the
192,273 people who started the survey, 122,149 were excluded after the socio-demographic
questions because some of their quotas were already filled in the final sample. Out of the
70,124 respondents allowed to participate, 15,812 dropped out at some point, including 7,123
after the socio-demographic questions (i.e. after the topic had been revealed). Out of 54,312
respondents allowed to participate who did not drop out, 9,858 were excluded for failing
the attention test, and among those who remained, 3,774 were excluded for completing the
questionnaire in less than 11.5 minutes (thus, 13,632 were excluded in total). The final sample
comprises 40,680 respondents. For more details, Table A32 shows the socio-demographic
characteristics of respondents who dropped out, rushed through the questionnaire, or failed
the attention test. Women, younger, lower-income, and less educated respondents are more




                                                                    110
Table A31: Effects of the treatments on support for climate action on the extended sample
                                                                        Support or Agreement
                                            Green            Ban on           Carbon tax        Fairness of         Adopt
                                        infrastructure   combustion-engine       with          main climate     climate-friendly
                                           program             cars          cash transfers    policies index      behaviors
                                             (1)                (2)               (3)               (4)               (5)
           Control group mean               0.648              0.509             0.459            -0.084            -0.039
           Treatment: Climate impacts      0.017∗∗           0.020∗∗∗           0.029∗∗∗         0.052∗∗∗           0.060∗∗∗
                                           (0.007)           (0.008)            (0.008)          (0.015)            (0.015)
           Treatment: Climate policy       0.028∗∗∗          0.047∗∗∗           0.099∗∗∗         0.137∗∗∗            0.029∗
                                           (0.007)           (0.008)            (0.008)          (0.015)            (0.015)
           Treatment: Both                 0.040∗∗∗          0.071∗∗∗           0.116∗∗∗         0.178∗∗∗           0.084∗∗∗
                                           (0.007)           (0.008)            (0.008)          (0.015)            (0.015)
           Observations                    45,349             45,349            45,349            45,349            45,349
           R2                              0.091              0.087             0.094             0.129             0.090

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of indicator or continuous variables on socioeconomic
indicators and on energy usage indicators, controlling for country fixed effects. The dependent variable are
indicator variables equal to 1 if the respondent (somewhat or strongly) supports each of the main climate
policies (columns 1, 2, 3), or indices (4, 5). Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05;
∗∗∗
    p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.


likely to drop out, but the differences in attrition rates are not large.




                                                                 111
                                                   Table A32: Attrition analysis

                                                                    Dropped out                                 Duration
                                                                                      Failed       Duration
                                                      Dropped out      after                                     below
                                                                                  attention test   (in min)
                                                                     socio-eco                                  11.5 min
                                                          (1)           (2)            (3)            (4)          (5)
                     Control group mean                  0.196         0.078          0.157          35.712       0.322
                     Gender: Woman                      0.028∗∗∗     0.022∗∗∗       −0.026∗∗∗       8.670∗∗∗     0.008∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.002)        (0.003)         (1.674)     (0.003)
                     Lives with child(ren)              0.009∗∗∗       0.001        0.029∗∗∗       −5.627∗∗∗    0.025∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (1.737)     (0.004)
                     Age: 18 - 24                       0.088∗∗      0.261∗∗∗       0.129∗∗∗       −44.939∗∗∗   0.260∗∗∗
                                                        (0.043)       (0.074)        (0.023)         (9.610)     (0.034)
                     Age: 25 - 34                        0.026       0.206∗∗∗       0.084∗∗∗       −38.556∗∗∗   0.175∗∗∗
                                                        (0.043)       (0.074)        (0.023)         (9.708)     (0.034)
                     Age: 35 - 49                        0.025       0.200∗∗∗        0.053∗∗       −34.544∗∗∗   0.118∗∗∗
                                                        (0.042)       (0.074)        (0.023)         (9.822)     (0.034)
                     Age: 50 or older                    0.045        0.215∗∗∗       −0.024        −28.319∗∗∗     0.045
                                                        (0.042)       (0.074)        (0.022)        (10.245)     (0.034)
                     Household income: Q2              −0.578∗∗∗     0.084∗∗∗       0.152∗∗∗       −70.416∗∗∗   −0.380∗∗∗
                                                        (0.008)       (0.010)        (0.007)        (23.769)     (0.011)
                     Household income: Q3              −0.594∗∗∗     0.069∗∗∗       0.137∗∗∗       −64.796∗∗∗   −0.377∗∗∗
                                                        (0.008)       (0.010)        (0.007)        (23.972)     (0.011)
                     Household income: Q4              −0.589∗∗∗     0.071∗∗∗       0.129∗∗∗       −67.001∗∗∗   −0.370∗∗∗
                                                        (0.008)       (0.010)        (0.007)        (23.886)     (0.011)
                     Highest diploma: College           −0.061       −0.146∗∗        −0.007         89.975∗∗∗   −0.144∗∗∗
                                                        (0.042)       (0.074)        (0.022)        (20.625)     (0.034)
                     Highest diploma: High school       −0.048       −0.126∗        −0.0001        92.474∗∗∗    −0.157∗∗∗
                                                        (0.042)       (0.074)        (0.022)        (20.540)     (0.034)
                     Economic Leaning: Very Left        0.014∗∗      0.018∗∗∗       0.040∗∗∗          4.221      0.014∗∗
                                                        (0.007)       (0.006)        (0.007)         (3.203)     (0.007)
                     Economic Leaning: Center            0.004        0.008∗∗        0.009∗∗          1.308       0.006
                                                        (0.004)       (0.004)        (0.004)         (1.864)     (0.005)
                     Economic Leaning: Right           −0.010∗∗       −0.006        0.017∗∗∗         −0.623     0.021∗∗∗
                                                        (0.005)       (0.004)        (0.005)         (1.977)     (0.005)
112                  Economic Leaning: Very Right       −0.005        −0.003        0.064∗∗∗         −0.830     0.046∗∗∗
                                                        (0.005)       (0.005)        (0.006)         (2.334)     (0.006)
                     Economic Leaning: PNR              0.165∗∗∗     0.051∗∗∗        0.041∗∗∗        −4.633     0.237∗∗∗
                                                        (0.008)       (0.006)        (0.007)         (3.025)     (0.008)
                     Treatment: Climate Impacts        0.033∗∗∗      0.016∗∗∗       −0.018∗∗∗         4.518∗    −0.034∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (2.548)     (0.004)
                     Treatment: Climate Policies       0.038∗∗∗      0.037∗∗∗       −0.022∗∗∗       7.185∗∗∗    −0.044∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (2.667)     (0.004)
                     Treatment: Both                    0.057∗∗∗     0.042∗∗∗       −0.027∗∗∗       7.454∗∗∗    −0.054∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (2.401)     (0.004)
                     Agglomeration size: Large          −0.009         0.015∗         0.009         44.799∗∗∗     0.007
                                                        (0.009)       (0.008)        (0.009)        (10.122)     (0.021)
                     Agglomeration size: Medium         −0.003       0.025∗∗∗        0.020∗∗        41.482∗∗∗     0.012
                                                        (0.009)       (0.008)        (0.009)        (10.077)     (0.021)
                     Agglomeration size: Small           0.009        0.035∗∗∗       0.041∗∗∗       44.087∗∗∗    0.042∗∗
                                                        (0.009)       (0.008)        (0.009)        (10.042)     (0.021)
                     Public transport available        −0.027∗∗∗      −0.004         −0.001          −1.198     −0.041∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (1.449)     (0.003)
                     Car usage                         −0.045∗∗∗     0.008∗∗∗       −0.045∗∗∗        4.754∗∗∗   −0.137∗∗∗
                                                        (0.004)       (0.003)        (0.004)         (1.577)     (0.004)
                     Gas expenses                      −0.008∗∗      0.010∗∗∗        0.036∗∗∗        −0.042     0.016∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (1.578)     (0.004)
                     Heating expenses                  −0.042∗∗∗     −0.021∗∗∗        0.005∗       −7.013∗∗∗    −0.021∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (2.032)     (0.004)
                     Flies more than once a year       −0.015∗∗∗      −0.001        0.024∗∗∗          1.024     0.013∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (1.604)     (0.004)
                     Sector of activity                  0.003        0.007∗∗        0.088∗∗∗      −4.209∗∗∗     0.098∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.004)         (1.357)     (0.004)
                     Eats beef/meat weekly or more     −0.024∗∗∗      −0.003          0.004           1.069     −0.023∗∗∗
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (1.519)     (0.003)
                     Home ownership                     −0.005       −0.011∗∗∗      −0.008∗∗         −0.291      −0.001
                                                        (0.003)       (0.003)        (0.003)         (1.374)     (0.004)
                     Observations                       70,124        70,124         70,124          70,124      70,124
                     R2                                  0.400        0.054          0.095           0.005        0.327

      Note: The table shows the results of regressions of indicators on socioeconomic indicators and on energy
      usage indicators, controlling for country fixed effects. The dependent variable are indicator variables equal
      to 1 if the respondent dropped out voluntarily (1), dropped out voluntarily after the questions on social,
      demographic, and energy characteristics (2), failed the attention test (3), or completed the survey in less
      than 11.5 minutes (4). All observations are used, including respondents who dropped out. Robust standard
      errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05; ∗∗∗ p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.
                                                  Table A33: Balance analysis
                                                      Analysis sample                                   Full sample
                                          Treatment        Treatment      Treatment      Treatment         Treatment      Treatment
                                       Climate impacts   Climate policy     Both      Climate impacts    Climate policy     Both
                                             (1)              (2)            (3)            (4)               (5)            (6)
      Control group mean                      0                0              0             0                  0              0
      Gender: Woman                        −0.005           −0.003         0.009∗∗       −0.006∗            −0.004        0.011∗∗∗
                                           (0.004)          (0.004)        (0.004)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      Lives with child(ren) under 14       −0.003            0.002          0.004        −0.004              0.003          0.002
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      Age: 25 - 34                          0.008            0.013         −0.011         0.007              0.010∗       −0.006
                                           (0.008)          (0.008)        (0.008)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Age: 35 - 49                         0.014∗           −0.004        −0.014∗        0.011∗             −0.003        −0.004
                                           (0.008)          (0.008)        (0.008)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Age: 50 or older                      0.011           −0.004        −0.016∗∗       0.010∗              0.002          0.002
                                           (0.007)          (0.007)        (0.007)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Household income: Q2                  0.005           −0.007          0.003         0.003             −0.005         0.0004
                                           (0.006)          (0.006)        (0.006)       (0.005)            (0.005)       (0.005)
      Household income: Q3                  0.001           −0.005          0.006         0.002             −0.008          0.004
                                           (0.006)          (0.006)        (0.006)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Household income: Q4                 −0.004           −0.008         0.017∗∗        0.001             −0.007         0.010∗
                                           (0.007)          (0.007)        (0.007)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Highest diploma: College              0.009            0.003         −0.013         0.003              0.006        −0.006
                                           (0.008)          (0.009)        (0.009)       (0.007)            (0.007)       (0.007)
      Highest diploma: High school         0.018∗∗           0.005        −0.024∗∗∗      0.011∗              0.007        −0.014∗∗
                                           (0.008)          (0.008)        (0.008)       (0.007)            (0.007)       (0.007)
      Economic Leaning: Very Left           0.005            0.015        −0.024∗∗        0.007              0.010        −0.020∗∗
                                           (0.010)          (0.010)        (0.010)       (0.009)            (0.009)       (0.009)
      Economic Leaning: Center              0.003            0.006         −0.010        −0.001              0.003        −0.010∗
                                           (0.006)          (0.006)        (0.006)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Economic Leaning: Right               0.001            0.006         −0.009        −0.006              0.005        −0.008
                                           (0.007)          (0.007)        (0.007)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Economic Leaning: Very Right          0.006            0.012         −0.013         0.004              0.006        −0.015∗∗
                                           (0.008)          (0.008)        (0.008)       (0.007)            (0.007)       (0.007)
      Agglomeration size: Small            −0.002            0.002          0.008        −0.002             −0.0004         0.003
                                           (0.007)          (0.007)        (0.007)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Agglomeration size: Medium            0.004           −0.005         −0.006        −0.001             −0.006        −0.002
                                           (0.008)          (0.008)        (0.008)       (0.007)            (0.007)       (0.007)
      Agglomeration size: Large             0.003            0.001          0.001        −0.002              0.001        −0.001
                                           (0.007)          (0.007)        (0.007)       (0.006)            (0.006)       (0.006)
      Public transport available          −0.010∗∗           0.002          0.007        −0.007∗             0.004          0.003
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      Uses car                              0.004           −0.001        −0.012∗∗        0.006             −0.002        −0.006
                                           (0.006)          (0.006)        (0.006)       (0.005)            (0.005)       (0.005)
      High gas expenses                    −0.001           −0.003          0.006         0.001             −0.004         0.010∗∗
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      High heating expenses               −0.017∗∗∗          0.007         0.010∗∗       −0.009∗             0.002          0.005
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.005)            (0.005)       (0.005)
      Flies more than once a year           0.008           −0.0003        −0.001         0.007             −0.002        −0.002
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      Works in polluting sector           −0.0001            0.003         −0.001         0.001              0.001        −0.006
                                           (0.006)          (0.006)        (0.006)       (0.005)            (0.005)       (0.005)
      Eats beef/meat weekly or more         0.005           −0.001          0.002         0.002             −0.002          0.003
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      Owner or landlord                     0.005           −0.001         −0.002         0.001              0.002        −0.006
                                           (0.005)          (0.005)        (0.005)       (0.004)            (0.004)       (0.004)
      Observations                         40,680            40,680        40,680         53,469             53,469        53,469
      R2                                   0.001             0.001         0.002          0.001              0.001         0.001

Note: The table shows the results of regressions of indicators on socioeconomic indicators and on energy
usage indicators, controlling for country fixed effects. The dependent variable are indicators equal to 1 if
the respondent was assigned to this treatment group. Columns (1)-(3) use the analysis sample restricted
to those who did not rush through the survey and passed the attention check; columns (4)-(6) use the full
sample (all respondents who did not drop out). Robust standard errors are in parentheses; ∗ p<0.1; ∗∗ p<0.05;
∗∗∗
    p<0.01. See Appendix A-1 for variable definitions.




                                                                    113
A-10        Open-ended fields
    Before the treatments and all climate-related questions, we asked respondents to write a
short essay. The question reads: “When thinking about climate change, what are your main
considerations? What should [Country] government do regarding climate change?”
    To analyze these open-ended fields, we automatically translated them into English using
Google Translate. We read the first rows in each country to determine recurring topics and
define a list of categories. To conduct a sentiment analysis, we defined five broad categories
with minimum overlap: Worry / Should act (for responses that either express concern about
climate change or call for climate action); Do not worry / Should not act; Do not know
(where ignorance is explicitly stated); Empty (where the field is left blank or with short,
non-sensical text); Ambiguous (where the field does not fit in any of the previous categories).
To conduct a topic analysis, we define three kinds of categories: (a) climate action (there are
five such categories: change in lifestyle; tax/incentives; bans/sanctions; standard/norms;
subsidies/investment), (b) sector of activity (companies/industry; trash/recycling/plastic;
cars/transport; power/energy; housing/insulation; agriculture/forest), (c) other perspectives
on climate change (namely: climate damages; adaptation).
    We manually classify one-fourth (one out of every four row) of the fields into the above
categories. We then obtain the occurrence of sentiments (Figure A26) and topics (Figure
A27) per country. While two thirds of answers express concern for climate change, fewer than
one in seven mention a specific climate action. While more than one third of respondents
mention a specific sector of activity, most answers only formulate an emotion or a general
call to action. The topic analysis reveals that while electricity production is well-identified
as a polluting sector, very few people realize the importance of buildings’ heating. The
frequent occurrence of waste indicates that many people conflate different environmental
issues (recycling and climate change).
    We also run a keyword search (Figure A28), which confirms our manual classification.
This search also allows quantifying the occurrence of other topics and reveal frequent men-
tions of the notions of reduction and world, as many respondents highlight the global nature
of climate change and the need to abate fossil fuels. The definition of keyword search queries
is as follows:

   • meat: “meat—beef—cow—vegan—animal food—vegetarian”

   • natural: “natural”

   • world: “international—world—countr—global”

   • population: “populat”

   • research: “research—innovation—technolog”

   • tax: “tax—incentiv”

   • education: “educat—teach—campaign—school—aware—inform”




                                             114
• renewable: “renewable—solar—wind— sun—hydro”

• solar: “solar— sun”

• coal: “coal”

• electric: “electric”

• electric car: “electric car—e-auto”

• public transport: “public transport—public transit—train ”

• nuclear: “nuclear—atom”

• fossil: “fossil—coal—oil—gas—diesel”

• plastic: “plastic”

• companies: “compan—corporation—factories—factory—industr”

• aviation: “plane—flight—fly—aviation”

• justice: “justice—poor—equalit—fair—low-income”

• waste: “recycl—waste—plastic”

• forest: “forest—mazon—tree”

• heating: “heating—insulat—renovat”

• subsidies: “subsid”

• investment: “invest”

• ban: “ban —banned—interdiction—forbid—mandat—sanction—penalt—fines—punish

• standard: “standard”

• reduce: “reduc— less”




                                         115
Figure A26: Sentiment analysis: occurrence of broad categories in open-ended fields (in %).
                                              e                                          om
                                      me ncom                             e a          gd ates              a
                                 i n
                                     o
                                    c −i lia a      rk e any          Ko r         i n
                                                                                  K St             sia Afric e
                                − l r  e  a     d a   c      n c o d h n e    y d      d  i l  a e    h i  n
                              gh dd st na nm n rm ly pa xi lan ut ai rk ite ite z in ia on ut ra
                            Hi Mi Au Ca De Fra Ge Ita Ja Me Po So Sp Tu Un Un Bra Ch Ind Ind So Uk
             damages 5          5   2    4   2   6    3    4 27 2        2   1    2   2    4    6    2    8   5   9   8    3
            adaptation 1        4   0    1   1   0    0    0   1    1    0   0    0   2    1    2    0    5   2 13 2       0
      change lifestyle 2        2   0    1   3   4    1    2   3    2    1   2    1   0    3    1    3    6   1   0   1    0
            companies 7         8   2 12 3 10 4 11 1 29 1                    3 15 4        7    7    9    1   3   3 14 8
trash/recycling/plastic 9 12 4 12 12 10 7 11 5 29 8                          8 16 8 13 6 10 3                 9   8 14 22
        cars/transport 11 10 7 15 17 14 13 15 4 16 8                         5 13 5 19 4             7 15 10 7 10 10
         power/energy 18 11 27 15 16 10 16 19 15 17 31 20 19 7 19 10 8                                    8   7   4 25 20
    housing/insulation 2        1   1    2   2   3    1    4   0    0    3   0    2   3    7    1    0    0   0   0   1    1
     agriculture/forest 5 17 5           4 12 4       5    5   5 11 6        2    3 16 6        4 45 4 19 16 8 15
         tax/incentives 6       3   4 14 7       5    3 13 2        4    1   4    5   1    7    5    4    0   2   1   7    4
       bans/sanctions 2         4   0    3   2   1    4    3   1 11 5        2    4   2    2    1    6    1   4   1   4    3
              standard 1        1   0    2   1   0    1    0   1    0    2   2    1   0    1    2    0    0   0   0   3    0
subsidies/investment 5          3   5 10 3       5    3    3   3    7 11 3        5   0 10 2         3    0   4   1   6    2




 Figure A27: Topic analysis: occurrence of specific categories in open-ended fields (in %).
                                                                                            m
                                        e   me                                a           do es
                                     om inco a                             re          ing Stat              ica
                              − in c
                                       e− al i d a a r k
                                                         e a ny
                                                                n  o d  Ko
                                                                                y  d K
                                                                                          d    l    e sia Afr ne
                                      l                                     n
                                          r na nm nc rm ly pa xi lan uth ai rke ite ite zi ina ia on uth rai
                                                                  c
                            gh dd st
                          Hi Mi Au Ca De Fra Ge Ita Ja Me Po So Sp Tu Un Un Bra Ch Ind Ind So Uk
      Worry / Should act 63 65 56 63 64 63 62 75 51 91 60 68 80 67 71 50 77 47 51 59 72 65

   Activity/ies mentioned 37 40 28 44 44 39 37 44 26 50 45 33 40 28 37 27 63 22 31 39 51 42

Instrument(s) mentioned 15 11       9    26 13 14 10 20        9     20 18 10 15      3    20   9    15   8   9   3   19   9
No worry / Should not act   8   2   14   7   5   6    12   3   5     1   6   2    5   4    10 19     4    1   1   0   3    6
            Do not know     7   2   10   8   10 11    9    6   3     0   7   3    5   4    7    8    3    1   1   1   1    4
                  Empty 10 12       6    4   13 14    9    4   22    1   9   15   2   4    7    13   4    16 20 29    2    7
             Ambiguous      7   10 11    9   0   15   8    0   5     6   7   10   9   20   5    5    0    13 13   9   3    17




                                                               116
Figure A28: Keyword analysis: occurrence of specific keywords in open-ended fields (in %).

                                                                                            m
                               m e ome                                       a          g do tes               a
                             c    c
                              o in a        k      y                     r e          n
                                                                                     i Sta            i a fric
                           n   −   i  a   r       n                    o           K                 s
                         −i le ral d a ce a            n co d h K n ey d d il a                     e h A ine
                      igh idd ust anaenmran ermtaly apa exi olanout pai urk nite niteraz hinndiandonout kra
                     H M A C D F G I J M P S S T U U B C I I S U
             meat 1 0 0 1 5 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
          natural 2 2 3 2 1 1 1 1 6 3 1 1 1 3 1 3 1 2 2 3 2 2
            world 7 7 7 6 9 6 7 5 18 4 4 6 5 11 8 8 10 4 8 4 8 5
      population 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 0 2 0 0 2 0 1 0 6 0 0 0 1 2
        research 2 2 2 2 4 1 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 2 1 2 2
                tax 4 1 3 12 9 4 4 8 1 2 1 1 2 1 5 4 3 0 1 1 3 1
       education 3 7 1 2 2 2 2 4 2 10 3 2 6 7 2 2 9 0 5 5 13 1
      renewable 8 5 13 5 9 5 9 12 5 7 11 3 10 3 8 6 6 1 4 2 11 5
             solar 3 2 6 2 5 2 4 4 2 2 2 1 4 2 3 4 3 0 2 0 7 3
              coal 3 2 7 1 1 0 5 2 1 0 13 2 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 10 2
          electric 6 4 4 8 12 5 4 8 3 3 5 3 6 3 7 3 3 1 4 1 9 6
     electric car 2 1 1 3 8 2 2 3 0 1 2 0 2 1 3 1 1 0 0 0 2 2
public transport 3 2 1 2 6 3 4 4 0 2 1 1 4 1 3 1 2 1 2 2 3 0
          nuclear 2 0 2 1 1 2 2 1 4 0 5 4 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
             fossil 9 7 10 14 7 5 8 7 7 5 17 8 5 7 9 9 7 3 5 4 18 6
           plastic 3 3 2 5 4 3 4 4 2 4 4 3 5 2 6 2 4 0 6 4 3 3
     companies 8 8 4 13 6 10 8 13 3 18 3 5 14 8 5 8 9 2 5 4 11 7
         aviation 2 1 1 2 2 4 3 2 0 3 1 0 3 0 3 2 3 0 1 0 1 1
           justice 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0
            waste 8 9 5 11 11 8 5 11 3 13 7 7 12 9 11 5 8 2 8 8 11 10
            forest 3 14 2 4 3 3 4 3 2 9 5 2 2 15 3 2 37 2 12 17 7 11
         heating 2 1 0 1 3 2 2 2 0 0 6 0 1 2 5 1 0 1 0 0 1 2
       subsidies 1 0 1 3 2 0 2 0 1 1 5 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1
     investment 2 2 3 3 2 1 2 3 0 3 2 1 2 1 2 1 6 0 0 0 4 0
               ban 2 3 1 3 2 3 3 3 0 6 3 1 3 3 1 1 5 1 3 2 3 4
        standard 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
          reduce 10 10 9 12 10 10 7 13 10 10 8 14 9 7 10 7 12 10 6 10 14 9




                                                     117
A-11        Data sources
A-11.1      References
    The supplementary spreadsheet sources.xlsx contains all sources used in the pedagogical
videos or the questions, and sources for national statistics for quotas and sample represen-
tativeness. It also contains explanations for how we compute the cash transfers that can
be funded by a carbon tax, which appear in the questions and videos. We provide a brief
summary below.

A-11.1.1    Computations of the country-specific cash transfers
    We directly tell respondents about the increase in fuel prices in local currency that would
result from the carbon tax. To do so, we implicitly consider a carbon tax of $45 per ton
of CO2 and compute the implied increase in fuel prices based on the carbon content of the
fuel and the national fuel prices in each country. The revenues from this carbon tax are
redistributed in the form of equal cash transfer to each adult. To compute the level of cash
transfers, we assumed that the tax covers territorial CO2 emissions from fossil fuels (JRC
2018) that consumers bear 80% of the incidence of the carbon tax, and that the elasticity
of fuel consumption with respect to the tax is −0.2 (in line with the literature, e.g. Green
(2021); Labandeira, Labeaga and López-Otero (2017)).

A-11.2      Quotas
A-11.2.1    Detailed Regional Brackets
   • Australia:

        – Region 1: Broad New South Wales (Australian Capital Territory; New South
          Wales)
        – Region 2: Queensland
        – Region 3: South Australia
        – Region 4: Victoria-Tasmania (Tasmania; Victoria; Other territories)
        – Region 5: West Australia (Northern Territory; Western Australia)

   • Canada:

        – Region 1: Central (Manitoba; Saskatchewan)
        – Region 2: East (New Brunswick; Newfoundland and Labrador; Nova Scotia;
          Prince Edward Island)
        – Region 3: North West (Alberta; British Columbia; Northwest Territories; Nunavut;
          Yukon)
        – Region 4: Ontario




                                             118
    – Region 5: Quebec

• Denmark:

    – Region 1: Hovedstaden
    – Region 2: Midtjylland
    – Region 3: Nordjylland
    – Region 4: Sjælland
    – Region 5: Syddanmark

• France:

    – Region 1: Île de France
    – Region 2: Nord-Est (Bourgogne-Franche-Comté; Grand Est ; Hauts-de-France)
    – Region 3: Nord-Ouest (Bretagne; Centre-Val de Loire; Normandie; Pays de la
      Loire ; Poitou-Charentes)
    – Region 4: Sud-Est (Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes; PACA)
    – Region 5: Sud-Ouest (Aquitaine; Languedoc-Roussillon; Limousin; Midi-Pyrénées)

• Germany:

    – Region 1: Central (Hesse; Thuringia)
    – Region 2: Eastern (Berlin; Brandenburg; Saxony; Saxony-Anhalt)
    – Region 3: Northern (Bremen; Hamburg; Lower Saxony; Mecklenburg-Western
      Pomerania; Schleswig-Holstein)
    – Region 4: Southern (Baden-Württemberg; Bavaria)
    – Region 5: Western (North Rhine-Westphalia; Rhineland-Palatinate; Saarland)

• Italy:

    – Region 1: Centre
    – Region 2: Islands
    – Region 3: North-East
    – Region 4: North-West
    – Region 5: South

• Japan:

    – Region 1: Chubu (Aichi; Fukui; Gifu; Ishikawa; Nagano; Niigata; Shizuoka;
      Toyama; Yamanashi)




                                      119
    – Region 2: Kansai (Hyōgo; Kyōto; Mie; Nara; Ōsaka; Shiga; Wakayama)
    – Region 3: Kanto (Chiba; Gunma; Ibaraki; Kanagawa; Saitama; Tochigi; Tōkyō)
    – Region 4: North (Akita; Aomori; Fukushima; Hokkaido; Iwate; Miyagi; Yama-
      gata)
    – Region 5: South (Ehime; Fukuoka; Hiroshima; Kagawa; Kagoshima; Kōchi; Ku-
      mamoto; Miyazaki; Nagasaki; Ōita; Okayama; Okinawa; Saga; Shimane; Tokushima;
      Tottori; Yamaguchi)

• Poland:

    – Region 1: Central (Lubusz; Greater Poland)
    – Region 2: Central-East (Lesser Poland; Subcarpathian)
    – Region 3: North (Podlaskie; Pomeranian; Kuyavian-Pomeranian; Warman-Masurian;
      West Pomeranian)
    – Region 4: South-East (Holy Cross; Lodz; Lubin; Masovian)
    – Region 5: South-West (Lower Silesian; Opole; Silesia)

• South Korea:

    – Region 1: East (Busan; Daegu; North Gyeongsang; South Gyeongsang; Ulsan)
    – Region 2: North (Gangwon; Gyeonggi; Incheon)
    – Region 3: Seoul
    – Region 4: West (Daejeon; Gwanggju; Jeju; North Chungcheong; North Jeolla;
      Sejong; South Chungcheong; South Jeolla)

• Spain:

    – Region 1: Center (Castilla-La Mancha; Comunidad de Madrid)
    – Region 2: East (Cataluña; Comunidad Valenciana; Islas Baleares)
    – Region 3: North (Aragón; Cantabria; La Rioja; Navarra; Paı́s Vasco)
    – Region 4: North-West (Castilla y León; Galicia; Principado de Asturias)
    – Region 5: South (Andalucı́a; Canarias; Ceuta (Ciudad Autónoma); Extremadura;
      Melilla (Ciudad Autónoma); Región de Murcia)

• U.K.:

    – Region 1: Central U.K. (East Midlands; Wales; West Midlands)
    – Region 2: London
    – Region 3: Northern England (North East; North West; Yorkshire and The Hum-
      ber)




                                       120
    – Region 4: Northern U.K. (Northern Ireland; Scotland)
    – Region 5: Southern England (East of England; South East; South West)

• U.S.:

    – Region 1: Midwest (Ohio; Illinois; Indiana; Iowa; Kansas; Michigan; Minnesota;
      Missouri; Nebraska; North Dakota; South Dakota; Wisconsin)
    – Region 2: Northeast (Connecticut; Maine; Massachusetts; New Hampshire; New
      Jersey; New York; Pennsylvania; Rhode Islands; Vermont)
    – Region 3: South (Alabama; Arkansas; Delaware; District of Columbia; Florida;
      Georgia; Kentucky; Louisiana; Maryland; Mississippi; North Carolina; South Car-
      olina; Oklahoma; Tennessee; Texas; Virginia; West Virginia)
    – Region 4: West (Alaska; Arizona; California; Colorado; Hawaii; Idaho; Montana;
      Nevada; New Mexico; Oregon; Utah; Washington; Wyoming)

• Brazil:

    – Region 1: Central-West
    – Region 2: North
    – Region 3: North-East
    – Region 4: South
    – Region 5: South-East

• China:

    – Region 1: East
    – Region 2: North
    – Region 3: Northeast
    – Region 4: South Central
    – Region 5: West (Northwest China; Southwest China)

• India:

    – Region 1: Central Zonal Council
    – Region 2: Eastern Zonal Council (Andaman and Nicobar Islands; North Eastern)
    – Region 3: Northern Zonal Council
    – Region 4: Southern Zonal Council (Lakshadweep)
    – Region 5: Western Zonal Council

• Indonesia:




                                        121
    – Region 1: Eastern Islands (Bali; East Nusa Tenggara; Maluku; North Maluku;
      Papua; West Nusa Tenggara; West Papua)
    – Region 2: Eastern Java (Central Java; East Java; Yogyakarta)
    – Region 3: Northern Islands (Central Kalimantan; Central Sulawesi; East Kali-
      mantan; Gorontalo; North Kalimantan; North Sulawesi; Southeast Sulawesi; South
      Kalimantan; South Sulawesi; West Kalimantan; West Sulawesi)
    – Region 4: Sumatra (Aceh; Bangka Belitung Islands; Bengkulu; Jambi; Lampung;
      North Sumatra; Riau; Riau Islands; South Sumatra; West Sumatra)
    – Region 5: Western Java (Banten; Jakarta; West Java)

• Mexico:

    – Region 1: Central-Eastern (Federal District; Hidalgo; Mexico; Morelos; Puebla;
      Queretaro; Tlaxcala)
    – Region 2: Central-Western (Aguascalientes; Colima; Jalisco; Guanajuato; Mi-
      choacan; Nayarit; San Luis Potosi; Zacatecas)
    – Region 3: North-East (Coahuila; Nuevo Leon; Tamaulipas)
    – Region 4: North-West (Baja California; Baja California Sur; Chihuahua; Du-
      rango; Sinaloa; Sonora)
    – Region 5: South (Campeche; Chiapas; Guerrero; Oaxaca; Quintana Roo; Tabasco;
      Varacruz; Yucatan)

• South Africa:

    – Region 1: Center (Free State; North West)
    – Region 2: Gauteng
    – Region 3: North-East (Limpopo; Mpumalanga)
    – Region 4: South-East (Eastern Cape; KwaZulu-Natal)
    – Region 5: West (Northern Cape; Western Cape)

• Turkey:

    – Region 1: Central (Black Sea; Central Anatolia)
    – Region 2: East (Eastern Anatolia; Southeastern Anatolia)
    – Region 3: Marmara
    – Region 4: West (Aegean; Mediterranean)

• Ukraine:

    – Region 1: Center (Cherkasy; Chernihiv; Kirovohrad; Kyiv; Poltava; Sumy; Vin-
      nytsya; Zhytomyr)




                                      122
      – Region 2: East (Donetsk; Kharkiv; Luhansk)
      – Region 3: South (Dnipropetrovsk; Kherson; Mykolayiv; Odesa; Zaporizhzhya)
      – Region 4: West (Chernivtsi; Ivano-Frankivsk; Khmelnytski; Lviv; Rivne; Ternopil;
        Volyn; Zakarpattya)

A-11.2.2    Detailled urban-rural categories
  • Australia

      – Rural: Inner Regional Australia; Outer Regional Australia; Remote Australia;
        Very Remote Australia
      – Urban: Major Cities of Australia

  • Canada

      – Rural: Forward Sortation Area second character is 0
      – Urban: Forward Sortation Area second character is different from 0

  • Denmark

      – Rural: Live in town with less than 20,000 inhabitants
      – Urban: Live in town with more than 20,000 inhabitants

  • France

      – Rural
            ∗ Rural category 1: Couronnes de Grand-Pôle
            ∗ Rual category 2: Autre
      – Urban: Grand-Pôle

  • Germany

      – Rural: Rural areas
      – Urban:
            ∗ Urban category 1: Cities
            ∗ Urban category 2: Towns and Suburbs

  • Italy

      – Rural: Rural areas
      – Urban:
            ∗ Urban category 1: Cities




                                           123
           ∗ Urban category 2: Towns and Suburbs

• Japan

    – Rural: Living in a town of less than 100,000 inhabitants.
    – Urban: Living in a town of more than 100,000 inhabitants.

• Poland

    – Rural: Living in a town of less than 20,000 inhabitants.
    – Urban: Living in a town of more than 20,000 inhabitants.

• South Korea

    – Rural: Live in a District (i.e., “Gum”)
    – Urban:
           ∗ Urban category 1: Live in a Town (i.e., “Si”)
           ∗ Urban category 2: Live in a City (i.e., “Gu”)

• Spain

    – Rural: Living in a town of less than 20,000 inhabitants.
    – Urban: Living in a town of more than 20,000 inhabitants.

• U.K.

    – Rural: Rural village; Rural hamlet and isolated dwellings; Rural town and fringe;
      Rural town and fringe in a sparse setting; Rural hamlet and isolated dwellings in
      a sparse setting; Rural village in a sparse setting; Accessible rural area; Remote
      rural area; Very remote rural area; Very remote small town; Accessible small
      town; Remote small town
    – Urban:
           ∗ Urban category 1: Urban city and town; Urban city and town in a sparse
             setting
           ∗ Urban category 2: Urban major conurbation; Urban minor conurbation;
             Large urban area; Other urban area

• U.S.

    – Rural: RUCA code different from 1 (core metropolitan)
    – Urban: RUCA code 1 (core metropolitan)

• Brazil




                                         124
    – Rural: Live in a municipality with less than 50,000 inhabitants
    – Urban: Live in a municipality with more than 50,000 inhabitants
• China
    – Rural: Live in an agglomeration of less than 10,000 inhabitants
    – Urban:
          ∗ Urban category 1: Live in an agglomeration of more than 10,000 inhabitants
            and less than 500,000 inhabitants
          ∗ Urban category 2: Live in an agglomeration of more than 500,000 inhabitants
• India
    – Rural: Live in an agglomeration of more than 20,000 inhabitants
    – Urban: Live in an agglomeration of more than 20,000 inhabitants
• Indonesia
    – Rural: In a Kabupaten outside of the Capital town
    – Urban: Kota; Capital town of a Kabupaten
• Mexico
    – Rural
          ∗ Rural category 1: Rural
          ∗ Rual category 2: Semiurbano
    – Urban: Urbano
• South Africa
    – Rural: Live in a District municipality other than the District capital.
    – Urban: Live in a metropolitan municipality or in a capital of a District munici-
      pality
• Turkey
    – Rural: Living in a district with a share of rural population greater than the
      national average for districts.
    – Urban: Living in a district with a share of rural population smaller than the
      national average for districts.
• Ukraine
    – Rural: Living in a Village or a settlement
    – Urban: Living in a City or an Urban settlement




                                        125
A-11.2.3     Detailed education brackets
  • Australia:

      – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: College degree; Master’s degree or above

  • Canada:

      – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: College degree; Master’s degree or above

  • Denmark:

      – Offical categories used (Statistics Denmark): H40 Short cycle higher education;
        H50 Vocational bachelors educations; H60 Bachelors programs; H70 Masters pro-
        grams; H80 PhD programs
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Professional bachelor’s education; Bach-
        elor’s degree ; Master’s degree or higher

  • France:

      – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Bac + 2 or Bac + 3 (license, BTS, DUT,
        DEUG, etc.) ; Bac +5 or more (master’s degree, engineering or business school,
        doctorate, medicine, master’s degree, DEA, DESS ...)

  • Germany:

      – Offical categories used (OECD): Bachelor’s or equivalent education; Master’s or
        equivalent education; Doctoral or equivalent education
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: University degree (e.g. Bachelor) ; Mas-
        ter’s degree or higher

  • Italy:

      – Offical categories used (Istat): Diploma di qualifica professionale; Tertiary edu-
        cation
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Professional degree ; Bachelor’s degree ;
        Master’s degree or higher

  • Japan:

      – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: University; Graduate school and above




                                          126
• Poland:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Bachelor’s degree ; Master’s degree or
      higher

• South Korea:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Bachelor’s degree ; Master’s degree or
      higher

• Spain:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: University degree or higher vocational
      training ; Master’s degree/doctoral degree

• U.K.:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: College degree ; Master’s degree or above

• U.S.:

    – Offical categories used (U.S. Census): Some college, no degree; Associate’s degree;
      Bachelor’s degree; Graduate or professional degree
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: College degree ; Master’s degree or above

• Brazil:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for college education: University educa-
      tion ; Graduate or higher
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Graduate or higher

• China:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for college education: Undergraduate ;
      Master and above
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master and above

• India:




                                        127
    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for college education: College degree ;
      Master’s degree or above
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master’s degree or
      above

• Indonesia:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for college education: Bachelor ; Master
      or higher
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master or higher

• Mexico:

    – Offical categories used (OECD) for college education: Bachelor’s or equivalent
      education; Master’s or equivalent education; Doctoral or equivalent education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Technical or intermediate education ;
      University degree or higher vocational training ; Master’s degree/doctorate
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master’s degree/doctorate

• South Africa:

    – Offical categories used (OECD) for college education: Tertiary education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories: College degree ; Master’s degree or above
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master’s degree or
      above

• Turkey:

    – Offical categories used (OECD): Bachelor’s or equivalent education; Master’s or
      equivalent education; Doctoral or equivalent education
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for college education: Graduated from a
      Universty ; Master’s degree or higher
    – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master’s or equiva-
      lent education; Doctoral or equivalent education

• Ukraine:

    – Offical categories used (State Statistics Service of Ukraine): Primary level (short
      cycle) of higher education; The first (bachelor’s) level of higher education; The
      second (master’s) level of higher education; The third (educational-scientific /
      educational-creative) level of higher education; Scientific level of higher education




                                         128
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories: Specialist or bachelor’s degree ; Master’s
        or higher degree
      – Corresponding questionnaire categories for master or higher: Master’s or equiva-
        lent education; Doctoral or equivalent education

A-11.2.4     Detailed voting categories
  • Australia:

      – Election considered: 2019 Australian federal election (House of Representatives)
      – Candidate/Party 1: Liberal/National coalition
      – Candidate/Party 2: Labor

  • Canada:

      – Election considered: 2021 Federal election
      – Candidate/Party 1: Conservative
      – Candidate/Party 2: Liberal
      – Candidate/Party 3: New Democratic

  • Denmark:

      – Election considered: Folketingsvalg (i 2019)
      – Candidate/Party 1: Socialdemokratiet
      – Candidate/Party 2: Venstre

  • France:

      – Election considered: 2017 Presidential Election
      – Candidate/Party 1: Macron
      – Candidate/Party 2: Le Pen
      – Candidate/Party 3: Fillon
      – Candidate/Party 4: Mélenchon

  • Germany:

      – Election considered: Bundestagswahl 2017
      – Candidate/Party 1: CDU/CSU
      – Candidate/Party 2: SPD

  • Italy:




                                          129
    – Election considered: 2018 Italian General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Movimento 5 Stelle
    – Candidate/Party 2: Partito Democratico
    – Candidate/Party 3: Lega

• Japan:

    – Election considered: 2021 General elections
    – Candidate/Party 1: Liberal Democratic Party
    – Candidate/Party 2: Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan
    – Candidate/Party 3: Japan Innovation Party

• Poland:

    – Election considered: 2020 Polish presidential election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Andrzej Duda
    – Candidate/Party 2: Rafal Trzaskowski
    – Candidate/Party 3: Szymon Holownia

• South Korea:

    – Election considered: 2017 South Korean presidential election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Moon Jae-in
    – Candidate/Party 2: Hong Joon-pyo
    – Candidate/Party 3: Ahn Cheol-soo

• Spain:

    – Election considered: November 2019 Spanish General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: PSOE
    – Candidate/Party 2: PP
    – Candidate/Party 3: VOX

• U.K.:

    – Election considered: 2019 General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Conservative
    – Candidate/Party 2: Labour
    – Candidate/Party 3: Liberal Democrats




                                       130
• U.S.:

    – Election considered: 2020 Presidential Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Biden
    – Candidate/Party 2: Trump

• Brazil:

    – Election considered: 2018 Brazilian General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Jair Bolsonaro
    – Candidate/Party 2: Fernando Haddad

• India:

    – Election considered: 2019 Indian General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: BJP
    – Candidate/Party 2: INC

• Indonesia:

    – Election considered: 2019 Indonesian General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: PDI-P
    – Candidate/Party 2: Gerindra
    – Candidate/Party 3: Golkar

• Mexico:

    – Election considered: Elecciones Generales de Junio 2021
    – Candidate/Party 1: MORENA
    – Candidate/Party 2: PAN
    – Candidate/Party 3: PRI

• South Africa:

    – Election considered: 2019 South African General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: ANC
    – Candidate/Party 2: DA

• Turkey:

    – Election considered: 2018 Turkish General Election
    – Candidate/Party 1: Adalet ve Kalkınma Partisi




                                       131
    – Candidate/Party 2: Cumhuriyet Halk Partisi

• Ukraine:

    – Election considered: 2019 Presidential Elections
    – Candidate/Party 1: Volodymyr Zelenskyy
    – Candidate/Party 2: Petro Poroshenko




                                       132
      A-11.3        Correct answers to knowledge questions
       Question                                                       Correct Answer                                        Source
       In your opinion, is climate change real?                       Yes                                                   IPCC (2021)
       What part of climate change do you think                       Most (if not all )                                    IPCC (2021), Figure SPM.1
       is due to human activity?
       Which of the following elements contribute                     CO2 ; Methane                                         IPCC (2021), Figure SPM.5
       to climate change?
       (Multiple answers are possible)
       Do you think that cutting global greenhouse                    No (net zero CO2 emissions is required )              IPCC (2021), D.1
       gas emissions by half would be sufficient to
       eventually stop temperatures from rising?
       If a family of 4 travels 700 km from A to B,                   Plane (1)                                             Ecopassenger,
       with which mode of transportation                              Car (running on diesel or gasoline) (2)               U.S.: National Geographic
       do they emit the most greenhouse gases?                        Train / Coach (3)                                     Other: China (1), China (2),
       Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least)                                                                     India, Indonesia
       Which dish emits the most greenhouse gases?                    Beef [India: Lamb] (1)                                Poore and Nemecek (2018)
133
       We consider that each dish weighs half a pound.                Chicken wings (2)
       Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least)               Serving of Pasta [Asia: rice] (3)
       Which source of electric energy emits the most                 Coal-fired power station (1)                          Pehl et al. (2017)
       greenhouse gases to provide power for a house?                 Gas-fired power plant (2)
       Please rank the items from 1 (most) to 3 (least)               Nuclear power plant (3)
       Which region contributes most to                               China (1); U.S. (2)                                   JRC (2018)
       global greenhouse gas emissions?                               E.U. (3); India (4)
       Please rank the regions from 1 (most) to 4 (least)
       In which region does the consumption of an average             U.S. (1); E.U. (2)                                    Global Carbon Project (2019)
       person contribute most to greenhouse gas emissions?            China (3); India (4)
       Please rank the regions from 1 (most) to 5 (least).
       If nothing is done to limit climate change,                    Severe droughts and heatwaves (Likely)                IPCC (2014)
       how likely do you think it is that climate                     Rising sea levels (Likely)
       change will lead to the following events?                      More frequent volcanic eruptions (Unlikely)
      Note: Climate change may actually trigger volcanic eruptions but evidence is inconclusive and the primary drivers of volcanic eruptions are
      geological processes that are not directly linked to climate change (Aubry et al. 2022).
Appendix References
Global Carbon Project (2019). Supplemental data of Global Carbon Project 2019. Ver-
 sion Number: 1.0 Type: dataset.

IPCC, AR5, ed (2014). Climate change 2014: impacts, adaptation, and vulnerability:
  Working Group II contribution to the fifth assessment report of the Intergovernmental
  Panel on Climate Change. New York, NY:Cambridge University Press.

IPCC, AR6 (2021). Summary for Policymakers. In Climate Change 2021: The Physical
  Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the
  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.

JRC, European Commission (2018). Fossil CO2 Emissions of all World Countries: 2018
 report.

Kling, Jeffrey R, Jeffrey B Liebman, and Lawrence F Katz (2007). Experimental
 Analysis of Neighborhood Effects. Econometrica, 75(1): 83–119.

Pehl, Michaja, Anders Arvesen, Florian Humpenöder, Alexander Popp,
 Edgar G. Hertwich, and Gunnar Luderer (2017). Understanding future emissions
 from low-carbon power systems by integration of life-cycle assessment and integrated en-
 ergy modelling. Nature Energy, 2(12): 939–945.

Poore, J., and T. Nemecek (2018). Reducing food’s environmental impacts through
 producers and consumers. Science, 360(6392): 987–992.




                                          134
